THREAD: RBS Professor Justifies 93.13% as a C+ because "He gives more resources."
TOPIC: Academics

I'm currently enrolled in an online Investment Analysis (33:390:380) at RBS. There are 54 students enrolled. The class is fully remote, because the professor lives elsewhere. Most of the coursework comes straight from the textbook. Three exams, two quizzes and a bunch of homeworks, along with the final project that makes up 10%, that's where our grade comes from.

The issue herein lies within the grading itself. The professor says only the Top 14 students are allowed to receive A grades, with everyone else having their grades curved down, regardless of the numerical grade itself. He makes all of the grades public, with a unique identification number so only we know which grade is ours.

The 14th Student in our Class who get's an A, currently has a **97.68%**The 15th Student in our Class who get's a B+, currently has a 97.66%

The 36th Student in our Class who get's a C+, currently has a 93.10%

The 54th (Last Student) in our Class who get's a C, currently has 50.11%

The professor justified these grades, because he says he gives us all of the answers to the homeworks and quizzes and "the other professors do not". He says that "not to worry about the grade we get", because "your grade is wholly dependent on ranking."

The Current Grades for the first 21 students in the classThe grades for the students ranked 22nd to 44th​

The grades for the students ranked 45th to 54th.​

We, the students believe this highly egregious and excessively unfair, but don't know what to do next. Any thoughts on this would be most appreciated.

--- reply 1 (75 votes) ---
I hope the people with a 97.66% grade average respectfully request a grade audit to verify they're not being shorted 0.02 points somewhere.

Also, I hope this instructor is an open book with graded assignments - namely that you can request review, raise questions about grading, etc...

Absolutely bonkers.

--- reply 2 (52 votes) ---
That is absolutely not how any math course is graded. The OP is also not talking about a course in SAS, let alone the math department.

--- reply 3 (46 votes) ---
their investment analysis must be equivalent of the average wsb user so they let it slide xD

--- reply 4 (43 votes) ---
I thought curve was to prevent everyone from failing a class, not the opposite lol.

So uh.. this is allowed? For starters someone with a 54% shouldn’t be passing a class… doesn’t a curve still imply some people will fail the class instead of all passing? 93% avg with a C+ is crack head energy.

--- reply 5 (24 votes) ---
I am a teacher and I disagree with this. You need to calm down a little with your aggression.

--- reply 6 (22 votes) ---
We didn’t know the severity of the situation until exam 1 which was end of February because they don’t update any of our grades (homework, quizzes) until after an exam

--- reply 7 (22 votes) ---
I thought curve was to prevent everyone from failing a class, not the opposite lol.

"The curve" means grading to fit a distribution curve

Curves have two sides. Welcome to the shitty side.

The professor should have made the assignments/tests harder to avoid this. But it's grading on a curve.

--- reply 8 (20 votes) ---
When I took Managerial, the first day of class we were told the the professors at RBS have a image to uphold. And so she followed a rough guide line of (it’s been a few years and I bounced right out of her class after she said transfer students would struggle with her so might have changed)10% gets As, 20% gets Bs, 25%ish gets Cs, certain % fail, and a tiny % is devoted to + grades.

So basically if everyone did well and got above a C, she’d have to curve down so it wouldn’t seem like she wasn’t doing her job.

The dumbest shit I’ve ever heard. The school really doesn’t care about students at all, only statistics.
