THREAD: Academic Integrity Violation

Hi!!

I took a summer I course at Rutgers NB this summer. A bit more than one week after the Summer I finally grade due date, my prof emailed me that my work (not specified) showed that I may violated the Rutgers Academic Integrity policy. And he said I would be contacted by him or an AIF in a few days. Until the case was resolved, my grade would be a TZ, he wrote.
He didn’t mention anything more than this, like no description about responding in X days or specific violation that he found.

From that day, 3 calendar weeks have passed. I have received nothing from the prof and the AIF. The unofficial transcript says my grade is currently a TZ. Technically I am in 5-year program with a masters degree, and that course I took in summer was the final class I needed to complete my bachelor. Also, my transcript, without the completion of BS, the name of school is already the graduate school from this summer (I took a grad school course as well this summer).

Is my case in limbo? Is it normal (or unusual) to get nothing after 3 weeks?

Thank you!

--- reply 1 (65 votes) ---
Try reaching out to the professor and ask what exactly u did that violated academic integrity. You deserve a full explanation, not a vague email. Also, like what OP said, make sure you understand what is considered a violation of academic integrity and the potential consequences you might face.

--- reply 2 (21 votes) ---
Well I won’t speculate but you should familiarize yourself with different violations of academic integrity and be aware that even if you didn’t “cheat” or what not the rules stipulate that it just has to be more likely than not that you committed the violation to face consequences.

In my experience professors do not send violations to the conduct office for cases they aren’t confident in fact a violation. If it’s your first offense you may get a warning and failing grade on the assignment with a chance to pass and nothing further. However if it is a repeat offense you will be looking at minimum an F or an XF (stays on transcript for 1 calendar year), disciplinary probation and in more severe cases, suspension.

Please check your emails in case you missed an email from the AIF and you’d like to meet with them to explain their situation. They are not required to schedule one if you don’t request to and can move forward with the process without your statement and still find you guilty. They usually give about 1-2 weeks for you to respond before proceeding.

If still nothing I’d at the least try and talk to the professor and have them explain what the allegations are. Be honest and keep in mind this is your academic future here.

--- reply 3 (6 votes) ---
I also had an academic integrity violation happen for a class in the spring semester. I got the email right after finals week and then they followed up around a month after. It sucked but the whole process took around a little over a month.

--- reply 4 (4 votes) ---
AIF did!! The professor wasn’t a part of the process. Once the AIF did, we scheduled a time to meet via zoom later that week. Side note do some research about them because they are most likely another professor within that department. After the zoom session she gave the verdict the following week

--- reply 5 (3 votes) ---
Straight from the Academic Integrity policy online:

“Withdrawal and Assignment of Grades during the Disciplinary Process

Once a student has been notified of an alleged violation of academic integrity related to a course, the student may not drop the course until the disciplinary process is completed.
Students may request permission to withdraw retroactively from the course after the disciplinary process is completed unless the sanction issued includes an F or XF grade in the course, or a C grade for graduate students.
If the student wishes to withdraw from all courses while a case is pending, that request must be approved by the Dean of the school in which the student is enrolled, in consultation with the Academic Integrity Facilitator.
If a faculty member must submit a final course grade before the disciplinary process for an alleged violation of academic integrity is completed, the accused student shall be given a TZ grade or similar (e.g., Incomplete) until the disciplinary process is completed.”

--- reply 6 (2 votes) ---
Like I said if and when you’re contacted, just be honest. Professors aren’t stupid and know when something is up. However, if you know for a fact that you didn’t cheat, be prepared to explain whatever it is they alleged you cheated on. Not only that but explain your thought processes, how it is shown throughout the assignment, and why it’s not likely you cheated.

Good luck.

--- reply 7 (2 votes) ---
I appreciate for the very detailed information!!
It’s kinda good to know that the case is completely out of prof’s hands.
Thanks again!
