THREAD: Anonymous Academic Advisor here. Ask me your questions!

Hi there! Maybe weird (or not) but know that every office from One Stop to Deans to Academic Advisors to every department look at this subreddit.

No - I’m not One Stop.

No - I’m not a Dean.

Yes - I’m an Academic Advisor on the NB campus. Not going to out myself so I’m not gonna say where I work. But I’ve been here long enough to know lots of majors and policies.

New students, current students, prospective students - what questions do you have?

As someone else said, TOMORROW SEPTEMBER 8, 2026 IS A MONDAY SCHEDULE! You didn’t have Monday classes last week, and you need to experience your Monday classes so you can decide whether you want to keep it or drop it!

Remember Thursday is the Last Day of Add/Drop! DO NOT WAIT TO DROP A CLASS AT 11:59PM. We will know if you dropped the class at 12:00:01am….. and yes you will have a “W” grade starting at 12:00:00 on Friday, September 11th.

--- reply 1 (68 votes) ---
I don’t have a question, but this is an awesome thing for you to do! I also agree with your point about every department looking at this subreddit 🤣

--- reply 2 (25 votes) ---
Technically, no. But if you are holding a seat in a science course, you can F yourself (LOL sorry. Bio, Chem, Physics etc just are so stressful to advise on since there are never enough seats).

Just know that if you are holding a seat, and SPNs were given for that class, that class has more students than what it should. So by dropping the course, you won’t be giving a seat away. There are no seats to give. The class will still be closed. So depends on the class on this part.

--- reply 3 (18 votes) ---
I advise my students that they should finalize their schedule Thursday morning. It’s just so risky to wait til the last minute. An Advisor ain’t gonna tell you the number of students in that class and all that stuff. It’s a risk or chance the students doing this are taking. You could be luckily holding the seat for a friend or wasting your time.

--- reply 4 (18 votes) ---
I know they are Located at Lucy Stone Hall, Livingston Campus, 54 Joyce Kilmer Avenue, Piscataway, NJ 08854. Not sure exactly where in that building (that building is VERY confusing and feels like a labyrinth) but I believe one entrance (or multiple) has a description (like an office building) of where each department is located in Lucy Stone.

--- reply 5 (14 votes) ---
TBH, this is probably the weirdest part about registration. A lot of other universities DO tell you how many seats are open, how many are already taken, etc. And many universities have some sort of “smart” registration system where you can waitlist for classes, automatically drop a designated class if you get into another, etc. It would be amazing if Rutgers could get a more transparent system and make the registration process easier.

--- reply 6 (13 votes) ---
Ahhh… yeah… depends on the school you are in. I always recommend the Live Chat (I know SAS and SEBS has one) unless your school has like drop-in in-person or zoom appointments. Some schools/advisors are awful at email while others are better. I assume you are in SAS and can’t go below 12 credits? Because you should’ve been able to make the change yourself. Tho I know some classes can’t be dropped without an advisor. The rule of thumb for changes, especially for a SAS student, is to add an asynchronous class to go above 15.

--- reply 7 (11 votes) ---
My daughter has a meeting tomorrow with someone from the Office of Disability Services, NB campus. I can't find the address of the ODS due to server issues right now. Do you happen to know the name of the hall where the ODS is located so I can find the address? TIA!

--- reply 8 (10 votes) ---
Two parts to this.

1st - yes once 12:00:00am hits for Friday, Sept 11th you will get a “W” grade on a class you press “Drop” for on Webreg

2nd - If you are full time, your tuition won’t change. You will be charged as a full-time student. (SAS students aren’t allowed to go below 12 credits). For a PT student, I THINK you can get a partial refund. But I’m not One Stop and $$ is a One Stop question. I know there is general refund info for a full RU withdrawal.
