THREAD: Pass/No Credit FAQ as it stands right now way before the Provost puts it up

Disclaimer: Everything said here can change, however at the moment this is how things be rolling

First and foremost: you can choose which classes to convert your grade to pass/no credit. You can do all. You can do some. You can do none.

Second: you can choose up until May 22nd to convert your letter grade to a P or NC. Yes you can fail shit and then save your GPA after finding out you failed at least as the policy stands right now

Third: a P or NC grade will not change GPA. Hypothetically if you P/NC every single class you’re taking, your gpa will neither increase nor decrease from what it stands at the end of Fall 2019

Here’s the most important one for r/Rutgers: P/NC CLASSES WILL COUNT TOWARD MAJORS, PREREQUISITES, WHATEVER ELSE that only needs a C to happen. If you need a B, (Math300 CS, financial accounting) contact an advisor. The waters get murky with the B required rules. My source on this (the first part) is Dr. G himself. Consulting an advisor prior to making the decision is recommended

Additional notes:

Professors will not know if you aren’t taking a letter grade in their class. The professor is required to submit a letter grade. The registrar will convert the grade if you have requested it. The professor will not know that it got converted

Drop for a W deadline is now 4/10

The form to request P/NC is not out yet. Be patient

That is all. Understand this policy is much much more favorable for us than other schools. Many have set a deadline to chose around early-mid April. So try to be accepting of this rather than pushing for more (like that universal pass everyone gets a pass bullshit).

--- reply 1 (45 votes) ---
The rule of thumb is NC = F and PASS = C for all purposes, except GPA. (GPA is not affected at all.)

The usual rule for P/NC is that they cannot be used to satisfy requirements for your major. But there are also a lot of other rules for the usual P/NC, like only being able to use it on 2 courses or only be open to students with 90 credits or more. So it's natural for there to be confusion.

The School of Engineering, for instance, as far as I know, has already clarified that PASS allows you to fulfill major requirements. That is also my current understanding of the policy for SAS and other schools too.

Some things not even I am sure of and some other tips:

- Always consult an academic adviser before opting in.

- Be patient. The deadline is a long way away, and a FAQ from the University will be coming shortly. So just hold onto your questions, stop spamming the sub, and wait.

- I don't know how this interacts with grade replacement. For instance, if you are repeating a course in which you previously earned F or D, does a PASS grade remove the original D or F from your GPA? My guess would be yes, but I don't know for sure.

- What about situations where you need higher than a C to pass or fulfill a requirement? (For instance, some classes require B to pass. Some other classes give you an automatic prerequisite override for some other class if you get A.) My guess would be that PASS does not allow you to fulfill those requirements since your PASS might just be "C in disguise" and there's no way to know. But again I am not sure.

Just be patient.

--- reply 2 (12 votes) ---
Dude LOL I’m actually dead. They’re gonna just look at it, laugh and throw it out. You’re probably fine

--- reply 3 (2 votes) ---
Yeh the SOE advisor sent out an email virtual meetings. Not sure about other schools.
