THREAD: Expect strike first week of April: my takeaways from the Union Town Hall

I just returned from the AAUP-AFT union’s Zoom meeting hosted by Vice President Todd Wolfson. It was very informative. In this post I’ll try to use what I learned to answer some of the most common questions I see on r/rutgers.

When's it happening?

Throughout the meeting, everybody kept implying that the strike would begin during the first week of April.

Kyle Riismandel, VP of the Newark chapter, indicated that the earliest date a strike could begin was April 3rd.

They’re trying to be kind of secretive about it, so they won’t be making an official announcement until right before it starts. Professors won’t get any advance notice either.

Adjunct union president Amy Higer said that “we may be striking on the week of Passover.” I don’t know much about Passover but according to Google it lasts from April 5th to April 13th. There was a lot more circumstantial evidence suggesting it would be happening during that timeframe.

How long will the strike last?

Wolfson said the union expects Jonathan Holloway to go to the courts to try to shut down the strike as soon as it begins.

He said that after 2-3 days, a court could issue an injunction fining the union if it continued striking. There is even the chance that people who continued striking would be imprisoned and those on visas would be deported, but Wolfson said that was a very unlikely outcome.

Will seniors be able to graduate?

Riismandel said he did not expect any students to be prevented from graduating and that universities on strike have always found a way to make things work. Wolfson indicated that he did not expect the strike to last into May in the first place.

What about my assignments/grades/credits?

Get this — I saw a lot of professors saying they were just going to give all of their students As. They were calling this “the A strike.”

One professor said this in the chat: “I've already announced to all of my students that in only the worst-case scenario whereby a strike would last beyond the semester, that all would get A’s.” Many others responded to say they would do the same thing. They all received thumbs-up and heart emojis from their colleagues.

Certain faculty members plan on posting this message on Canvas:
“You are not expected to work during this time, and in order to minimize the impact on you, your final grade will be an A for this course, and you encouraged to support the strike by joining the picket line.”

To give you an idea of where the professors are at, here are some more of the messages they were sending each other:

“During the strike, ongoing assignments should be canceled and resumed when the strike is over.”

“Cancel assignments or at least the smaller ones. Simplify and destress it for students.”

“I am going to give them As for everything assigned after we go on strike.”

--- reply 1 (148 votes) ---
Was also there. The strike window is in the beginning of April but it could be sooner or later than that, to keep the admin on their toes. Basically if we find out we shouldn’t post it here if we find out before it’s announced.

It is also probably irresponsible to be posting on here about the “A strike” given its unlikely probability.

--- reply 2 (78 votes) ---
Probably better to say that RU teaching staff have no interest in punishing or harming students academically as part of a potential strike. When your hear or read you're going to fail a class unless you cross a picket line or that your graduation will be impacted, question the source of the information.

--- reply 3 (61 votes) ---
My two main takeaways:

- The university senate passed a resolution calling on admin to pledge they won’t retaliate against strikers OR students during this time. If the president doesn’t do this after a landslide vote in the senate, he’s just not smart.

- That we could still be striking when grades are due, which should be more of a concern than whether you’ll fail. It’s in all our best interest to clear this up as soon as possible.

--- reply 4 (54 votes) ---
i know this is made in good faith, but posting about what the union is planning to do isn’t responsible. it’s important for the union to be able to plan strikes/do union activities without the employer knowing what is going on. just my 2 cents

--- reply 5 (38 votes) ---
Exactly. I just encouraged my students to get all the information before reacting or panicking and that no one - even the admin - has a plan for this scenario. So when you hear anyone say you’ll definitely fail or lose the semester’s credits, they don’t have info to back that up.

--- reply 6 (31 votes) ---
Jeez I hope my physics 2 professor gives me an A, please please please. As a CS major, I understand why the uni wants us to take more complex math classes, but I highly doubt I'm ever going to need to calculate the force of a magnetic field on a semi infinite wire - solenoid - arc plane in almost any job I'd be doing with this degree.

--- reply 7 (28 votes) ---
Understood - but I think this post is doing a good job explaining various options/paths that could happen and arm students with knowledge to help fight the misinformation spread from the other side. Also there isn’t anything set in stone yet so they aren’t really spreading the plans of the union imo

--- reply 8 (25 votes) ---
The Senate can advise the President. That's about it (a little more, but not much). The Senate has for a long time, being an elected body from across the university, tried to have input into budget, academic, building, IT and other matters, but the ultimate decision invariably lies with the Board of Governors, which is advised by an army of overpaid bureaucrats.

This may explain some things about the budget, academics, buildings, IT and other matters: whatever benefits overpaid bureaucrats goes. That's number one. Whatever students and professors need is number two - after number one has been satisfied.
