THREAD: Dear Rutgers boys of Reddit

Girl here. Just wanted to say shoot your fucking shot. Although i am touched by your sweet romance stories, i am also completely infuriated by how y’all idle stood by. If you see a pretty girl in public who is not intensely studying or something say “hey sorry to bother you but (insert single, detail specific compliment here)_” so we know your not a creep out here to assault us. Not to generalize but i think all girls like compliments and Wanted attention because it can majorly shift our day. A guy complimented once my eyes, smiled and walked away but that smile SENDED me. Anyways just go for it worst case she says thanks and ignores you or she already has a boyfriend or is gay.

Things not to do (that i can’t believe i have to say but)
1. Don’t take a picture of said girl because that is creep status
2. Don’t turn to Facebook or twitter to search for said girl because also creep status
3. Don’t harass her for anything (phone number, snap, etc.)
4. If she’s not actively participating in the conversation back the fuck up
A kid once clicked and made kissing noises at me in the library while i was studying for an exam and i had to pretend to listen to music to not encourage him but he still came over and bothered me anyway. Don’t do that.

Lastly you can turn to Reddit to share your story (because i love to read them) but don’t expect any results. I, a female at Rutgers, didn’t understand the concept or the hype of Reddit til 3 weeks ago. So she’s not in here [this subreddit]

Thanks for coming to the TedTalk that no one asked for.

--- reply 1 (238 votes) ---
Can this reddit stop talking abt dumb ass love weird shit just want to see stupid goose memes

--- reply 2 (70 votes) ---
But fr though, I got second hand embarrassment from watching a guy aggressively try to pick up a girl at an orientation I went to.

--- reply 3 (70 votes) ---
Can this please be pinned because those posts need to stop. That post where the guy took a picture of her made me feel violated.

--- reply 4 (40 votes) ---
Guys are so intimidating, most of y'all look mad all the time, so that's why I'm always scared to approach you all!

--- reply 5 (37 votes) ---
I’m sure you’re a very cute girl OP, if you wanna have your own skateboarding in front of Murray hall experience, I’ll be sitting down over there next Tuesday lol

--- reply 6 (36 votes) ---
Do like the guy on my EE just did! He wrote this girl a poem and, just before getting off, handed it to her and said "I wrote this for you in class the other day" and she read it IMMEDIATELY. That is a cute, not creepy way to do it. Be more like him. Even if she says no, he tried his absolute best.

--- reply 7 (32 votes) ---
So far in this semester I've asked two girls out and got rejected both times. Sucks, but I'm glad I went for it instead of not even trying. Plus it builds confidence. It's also good to have friends to encourage you and back you up.

--- reply 8 (29 votes) ---
Ugh it was even worse, he was like “I need your number... for advice” and “Grab lunch with me sometimes... to talk about <event we attended orientation for>”.

The girl was only a part time assistant for the orientation and looked so uncomfortable. The worst part was that his excuses didn’t even make sense since during the orientation, he didn’t even ask the “questions he was dying to ask that he needed to ask the assistant girl out to lunch for”.
