THREAD: RBS GPA is 1.982 after appeal condition required 2.00: what can I do?
TOPIC: Advice Wanted

Hi everyone. I’m a Rutgers Business School student and I’m honestly panicking right now, so I’m trying to see if anyone has been in a similar situation or knows what steps I can take.

I was academically dismissed last semester and appealed. My appeal was granted, but one of the conditions was that I had to raise my Rutgers Business School GPA to at least a 2.00 by the end of Spring 2026, or I would be dismissed from RBS without another appeal.

My Spring 2026 grades just posted. My overall cumulative GPA is a 2.590, and my Spring 2026 term GPA was a 2.750. I did not fail any classes this semester and did not receive any D’s. However, most of my classes this semester were non-business classes, so only one class really affected my RBS GPA: Statistical Methods for Business.

I received a C in Stats with about a 78.2 final grade. When I calculated my RBS GPA, it comes out to around 1.982. If the Stats grade were a C+ instead of a C, my RBS GPA would be around 2.00 or slightly above, which would meet the appeal condition.

I already emailed my advisor asking her to confirm my official RBS GPA and what my options are. I also emailed my Stats professor asking if my final grade/final exam/remaining work can be reviewed, especially because I did extremely well on the exams and the C vs C+ difference has a major impact on my standing.

I’m a rising senior and was trying to recover from a really rough academic year. I actually improved this semester overall, but because I only had one business course, the C in Stats might keep my RBS GPA barely below the 2.00 requirement.

Has anyone dealt with something like this before at RBS or Rutgers? Is there anything else I should do while waiting for my advisor/professor to respond? Would a professor be able to review/change a final grade if I’m extremely close to the cutoff?

I know nobody here can guarantee anything, but I’m just trying to understand what options might exist because I’m literally around 0.018 away from the requirement and I’m terrified.

--- reply 1 (129 votes) ---
I mean… it takes a lot to get academically dismissed. They basically already gave you one final chance, and you didnt meet the criteria.

Prof nor dean is really under any obligation to grant leniency unfortunately. I’m not sure why you didn’t choose to take more RBS courses since you needed to raise that gpa specifically.

All you can really do atp is beg and plead. I don’t think you’ll find much luck with any formal appeals options because you don’t have any ground to stand on for an appeal, and it’ll likely just anger whoever is actually in control of this decision.

--- reply 2 (83 votes) ---
I failed out of community college 10 years ago, falling gym class of all things was what got me the boot. I joined the military to get the discipline and purpose I was missing. I'm now an honors student here and the life skills I've gotten have allowed me to be able to handle the stresses of college this time around, plus it's all paid for by the government. If that isn't an option maybe try to find a trade school but you were given a last chance to make corrections then didn't take RBS classes to raise the one category you were supposed to fix. I don't think you're stupid, but I think you need something different. Don't join the Marines whatever you decide to do. Idk what else to tell you but I'm sorry you're going through this.

--- reply 3 (23 votes) ---
Good response. It's on op, and your story is inspiring. Personally, I wouldn't give leniency. Plus, I don't understand how they state they did extremely well on exams but end up with a C instead. I think they need to get their shit together, and military is one way to do so.

--- reply 4 (14 votes) ---
Yeah, I hate having to tell someone they might need to consider the military but despite it's challenges I got everything I was looking for in life out of it. The Navy gave me IT certifications and training that would have cost me an entire college degree in itself plus paid travel to four different continents in three years.

--- reply 5 (13 votes) ---
I'm proud of my service, it's completely acceptable to criticize the government for their actions but don't blame the service members who join with the intent to serve, honor, and protect their country.

--- reply 6 (11 votes) ---
Email all your professors to see if there is any extra credit you can do to marginally push your grade up and explain that you're on academic probation.

But honestly get it together and stop slacking your classes.

--- reply 7 (10 votes) ---
i say this with utter love get a therapist asap. this can’t just be a no brain thing & hopping back in won’t even work until u change. “i’ve been having a mental health crisis but recently sought support” may be your ticket to things being reconsidered as an “administrative withdrawal” (with documentation from a psych)….and maybe you’d be allowed to return to your program (with documentation that ur well again). but u have to act ASAP. like whole summer documented therapy. like something. i knowww this isn’t a “ur completely dumb” thing no one is LITERALLY 1.9 dumb. this is because you can’t function for some other reason. take ur mental health seriously, whatever it is. whatever’s going on up there is valid and take it directly to a therapist and i am sorry you are having trouble

--- reply 8 (7 votes) ---
Never ask anyone here for advice, many of the frequents here are the most pathetic people ever with no empathy or imagination to think of simple things that could interfere with your academics.

I reccomend deleting this and saving your mental health, your advisor will be the one to figure something out. Its unlikely for anyone here to have any advice your advisor will not suggest.
