THREAD: A Defense of Dr.G

I commented this under a post in the BU sub, but I will just copy it down here, and elaborate a little more.

I’m just gonna try to give my personal take as someone who actually has this professor for Calc 1. Even before the whole coronavirus situation happened, it was clear that the man really tried to do what was best for his students and gave as many resources as he could to try and help his students in his course.

Then Covid-19 happened, and this man literally lead the charge for I believe the transition of all Calc Professors to online learning, spent countless sleepless hours trying to make sure everything was efficient, and held 3-4 Office Hours per week during Spring Break just so that students could be in the loop. After Spring Break is when we went online and he continues to do the same.

There was another comment from a student talking about how he posted something about trying to get rid of ProctorTrack, which he then got flamed by Dr G (the professor in this screenshot). I saw both the post and the comment, and it is a little untruthful to say that’s what happened. The student was essentially being accused by his professor for cheating (Bc I think he got flagged?) and Dr G was trying to clarify (he has a very strong tone, so it definitely rubbed off the wrong way on some people) University policy in regards to how teacher accusations regarding cheating goes. He then went on to say that due to how widespread ProctorTrack is, it will probably be difficult, and thus kind of useless to try and get rid of it (which I disagree with, but okay; just because it’s used a lot, DOESNT mean a faulty software should be allowed). Dr G from the start said that he will not use ProctorTrack, why? Because ProctorTrack requires software to be downloaded and he recognizes that not everyone has the right situation at home. He openly denounced ProctorTrack both in class and over email. He also had so many practice exams available in the same format that the Exams would be, just so we could get a feel for how to do it beforehand, instead of stressing during the exam itself.

Well I do think he seemed very egoistic when he openly declared how gleeful he is at the prospect of hunting down these students, this should not diminish what all that he has done for his students as he is actually much more empathetic than these posts make him out to be. He has repeatedly shown that he is more than eager to help any students in need, and was more than willing to give student accommodations for those who have been adversely affected in any capacity by Covid-19.

I do not condone his behavior either, but the backlash by this sub seems at the least, a tad bit over exaggerated.

Is he wrong for his demeanor of how publicly happy he is to catch those students? Maybe. Is his anger justified? Absolutely. Should these students be caught, and subsequently punished? I mean if you uploaded a copyrighted exam onto Chegg minutes after it was uploaded, you kind of had it coming.

--- reply 1 (163 votes) ---
I honestly find nothing wrong in being happy to catch students cheating. It’s fun to see people get what they deserve.

YoU ShOuLdN’t EnJoY RuInInG PeOpLeS LiVes. Bitch don’t cheat. Some people act like it’s Dr. G’s fault this situation happened. I have zero sympathy for people, especially that scummy guy on here bragging to have abused the disability allotments.

--- reply 2 (99 votes) ---
Oh my god, shut the fuck up.

The majority of people don't have a problem with him catching cheaters. They have a problem with him acting like a douchebag on here every week.

I think he made the right decision with the cheaters. I still think it's scummy to talk about how excited you are to catch students failing. Those two things aren't mutually exclusive.

This is the same dude that has told students to get fucked, called students idiots, spent pages of texts roasting students who are clearly just trying to vent on here, and takes every chance he can get to act like a condescending douchebag. That's why people don't like him.

--- reply 3 (78 votes) ---
It boggles my mind that people actually find Dr. G in the wrong here, and that people apparently have sympathy for cheaters. I have sympathy for people who fail a class or do poorly due to COVID- hell, I'll even have sympathy for the disappointed high-achieving kid that gets a B+ when he really wanted an A. I have no sympathy for cheaters, though, because they clearly have no sympathy for the rest of us- their cheating can only ever hurt the student body.

I'm not under the Prof Santosh delusion that "Cheating is what separates Rutgers from Harvard", no, but catching cheaters and screwing them over now is undoubtedly good for everyone taking calc now (because you'll probably end up in other classes with some of those kids in the future) and in the future (because it holds future students to a more realistic achievement expectation). Even worse, cheating can lead to widespread proliferation- if everyone else is cheating, it's a lot more tempting to cheat yourself to "keep up". Every time someone cheats, they're actively working against everyone else that doesn't cheat.

I'm glad Dr. G is happy to catch people cheating- I wish more profs were as enthusiastic about it as he is! It's heartening to know that some profs have the best interests of everyone else in the class at heart.

--- reply 4 (67 votes) ---
I agree with a lot of what you said. I think it’s more that he’s disappointed and angry that he caught 126 students cheating after he spent countless hours trying to make things run smoothly and accommodating students’ needs in a situation like this. Based on what I see on this sub, I bet he gets dozens of emails asking questions that could easily be answer by reading previous emails, the syllabus, etc. It probably feels like a stab in the back to him because of all the hard work he’s put in to preparing the class to go online and he couldn’t even get the effort reciprocated from a large number of his students. I’m guessing the cheating (on an individual level) was pretty bad considering how things were worded, so he has a right to be upset. He’s really passionate about math and teaching just like students are passionate about any of their hobbies. Now imagine you’re trying to teach someone your favorite hobby, putting in an enormous amount of time and effort, only to find out when it’s time for them to show you what they’ve learned they don’t care enough to even have some integrity. It has to sting from his perspective and I think that’s something that a lot of people are missing.

--- reply 5 (52 votes) ---
If you cheat. You accept you might get caught. Idk why people act as if cheating is their right and that the professor is mean or rude for catching them. Like no you cheated.... Take the punishment with some self respect. If you're gonna cheat..... Do it right

--- reply 6 (40 votes) ---
It also ignores that cheating "ruins lives" -not only do you fuck your own education up (try explaining to your boss why you can't do the job your degree said you can do), your fucking the curve up for legit people. Those kids may be trying to get into med school (or grad school to a lesser extent) where their gpa matters hugely for acceptance. If they're getting B/B+ because so many cheated to get As then you're "ruining" their chances.

--- reply 7 (33 votes) ---
Came on here to say this. It’s honestly sad that a Professor at a good research school gets his kicks by dunking on his students on Reddit. Like grow the fuck up dude.

--- reply 8 (24 votes) ---
i learned SQL in a class, didnt cheat, and remember absolutely none of it right now lol. if you gave me a couple hours I would be able to recall a good deal of the info with some brushing up, but i’d get a fat zero if you quizzed me on it cold.
