THREAD: I am once again asking for...you to consider taking my summer course: Evolution, Disease, and Medicine.

I don't have that many people registered yet, and the ideal size is a around 10, so...

Course number: 11:216:110

Course name: Evolution, Disease, and Medicine

Dates: Monday, July 11 - Thursday, August 4th

Times: Monday-Tuesday-Wednesday-Thursday, 11am to 1:45pm (Note that the official times start at 10am two days per week, but we're starting at 11am each day, keep it simple. Also note that we're not going to have three hours of class each day. Expect the average day to be 11am to about 1pm.)

Why should you take this course? Because it's awesome. It's a great topic - we'll cover the basics of evolutionary biology, and apply it to human evolution, disease evolution (viruses, antibiotic resistance, lots more), cancer, human health (what's up with diabetes? Why are ankles terrible?), and a lot of other things.

Also, there's no textbook to buy. I wrote a (short) book specifically for this course that I'll give you. For free. (And I mean short, it's only about 55 pages long.) Did I mention that half your grade is participation?

And if you need to take a science course at some point to graduate, this is a great option. It's designed to be accessible to people who aren't majoring in a life science.

It'll be fun! Take Evolution, Disease, and Medicine this summer.

--- reply 1 (134 votes) ---
You cannot go wrong with Professor Stern-Cardinale. A great person, and a great professor.

--- reply 2 (47 votes) ---
rinse dazzling connect squash plate squeal carpenter hobbies cats pause

This post was mass deleted and anonymized with Redact

--- reply 3 (11 votes) ---
If I ever come back to this hell hole, you’ll be my number 1 edit- whoever downvoted me go fuck yourself

--- reply 4 (10 votes) ---
I believe I’m taking professor stern-cardinale this fall for gen bio. He has great reviews, happy to hear that. I would take this class, sounds super intriguing but I will not be available

--- reply 5 (5 votes) ---
Aw this looks like an interesting course, I wish I had the time but I'm working :(

--- reply 6 (5 votes) ---
If it was online and async I would definitely take this, but unfortunately I have a full time internship.

--- reply 7 (3 votes) ---
Seeing as I'm an SMLR major I'm in no way qualified to take this course, but man it sounds interesting

--- reply 8 (3 votes) ---
I wish I could!!! Work and other classes overlap but hoping you get more people registered !
