THREAD: Zoom U BEGINS! FUCK😭
TOPIC: ZOOM U!

September 1st we will follow the Tuesday schedule. Take the Covid quiz as soon as you can

The Fall 2020 Academic Calendar can be viewed here

MONDAY SEPTEMBER 7TH, ALL CLASSES ARE CANCELLED FOR LABOR DAY

TUESDAY SEPTEMBER 8TH FOLLOW YOUR MONDAY SCHEDULE

The last day to add a course is Friday September 11

The last day to drop a class without a W is Monday September 14th

GOOD LUCK TO EVERYONE IN THIS REALLY FUCKED SEMESTER!

--- reply 1 (122 votes) ---
"Dr. G" isn't a person. He's a feeling in your heart. He represents care and giving and cats in bags. People like to dress up as him and make believe too. Just like Santa Claus or the Easter Bunny or Slash.

--- reply 2 (114 votes) ---
I don't know which bums me out more, that this summer was lame af or that this semester is all online

--- reply 3 (76 votes) ---
If you believe and expect everything is going to be "really fucked", then it will be. If you go in with a negative attitude, then how do you intend to have any other outlook?

I can tell you that many of your teachers have been working extremely hard to deliver a learning experience that is comparable to or even better than normal in-person instruction.

I get that you're anxious, depressed, or disappointed about an online semester, but it really doesn't have to be as bad as you think it will be.

--- reply 4 (27 votes) ---
I can tell you that many of your teachers have been working extremely hard to deliver a learning experience that is comparable to or even better than normal in-person instruction.

If you believe that, then I have a bridge over the Raritan to sell you.

I have no doubt that some are, but seeing how summer classes were run, quite a few professors have no idea how to run an online class and have no issue throwing blame and every problem on the students. The professors who do put in an effort deserve praise, but that does not apply to many.

Considering how few have even sent an email announcing how to even attend the first lecture tomorrow, it is clear that they clearly spent the summer doing something besides preparing for class. Or maybe they did and overlooked one really important detail...

The quality will NEVER be as good as in person, it might get close, but equal if not better is not a reality.

Furthermore, last spring, it was evident that many professors had no concept respect for students time, they started taking advantage of looseness in the schedule and assuming everyone had more free time than they really did.

This fall may very well be worse, as now there is no schedule, so even the professors with good intentions may end up placing stuff on top of other schedules, and professors who do not care will abuse the situation. (the fact that so few are bothering to email any information until the absolute last second really seems to suggest this)

I bet you will do a good job Dr. G, you have shown that you care about providing a proper education, however so many professors here have proven the exact opposite, and the students are going to get the brunt of it this semester.

--- reply 5 (26 votes) ---
I can deal with online classes the part that fucks me up is being forced to stay home with super toxic parents. My mental health and my social life has deteriorated immensely from being home for 5 months and it’s about to get worse in the next 5-12 months depending on if and when we get to go back in the spring

--- reply 6 (23 votes) ---
"Dr. G" isn't a person. He's a feeling in your heart. He represents care and giving and cats in bags. People like to dress up as him and make believe too. Just like Santa Claus or the Easter Bunny or Slash.

I have yet to see someone dressed up as Dr. G for Halloween

--- reply 7 (18 votes) ---
I think it's more that peoples personal and social lives are "really fucked', therefore reducing the motivation to even learn

--- reply 8 (11 votes) ---
Yup, get ready for Self-Taught University!

I swear, it should be mandatory for professors to get good mics and cameras
