THREAD: RUTGERS UNIVERSITY CORONOVIRUS RESPOSE
TOPIC: Official School Update

Classroom Instruction at Rutgers – Camden, Newark, and New Brunswick

Beginning Thursday, March 12, through the end of spring break on Sunday, March 22, all classes are canceled.

Beginning Monday, March 23, through at least Friday, April 3, all course instruction will be delivered remotely. All face-to-face instruction is suspended. This includes any class meetings.**

Individual instructors are expected to be in contact with their students regarding their plans for remote instruction prior to March 23.

Instruction at Rutgers Biomedical and Health Sciences

Courses at RBHS will continue as scheduled.

Beginning Monday, March 16, all RBHS classes with more than 15 participants will be provided remotely. RBHS deans from the relevant schools will be in touch with students regarding more detailed plans for remote instruction.

Please note there will be no change to clinical rotations and clinical instruction.

Campus Activities

Students living in residence halls should leave campus as soon as possible. Students are strongly encouraged to remain off campus through April 3. The University understands that leaving campus may not be possible or prudent for everyone, and we encourage anyone with concerns to contact the student housing office on your campus.

Beginning Thursday, March 12, Rutgers events and in-person meetings involving groups larger than 15 participants are cancelled through April 15. Guidance related to this policy will be reviewed again by April 1.

Groups with events scheduled after April 15 are urged to begin considering alternative plans in case future events will need to be cancelled or postponed.

No new non-essential events should be scheduled until further notice.
Athletic directors are instructed to follow the guidance of their respective athletic conferences.

Travel

We strongly suggest that all members of the Rutgers community reconsider any upcoming domestic travel, especially to areas where there has been a significant incidence of COVID-19.

All Rutgers-led international spring break programs are canceled.

All students in third-party study abroad programs are strongly encouraged to return.

All international travel sponsored by Rutgers is suspended.

Any member of our community returning from a country designated Level 3 by the CDC is required to self-isolate for 14 days before returning to campus.
Faculty and Staff

University offices, labs and services will remain open during this time period.
Employees are strongly encouraged to use teleconference services, such as Webex, in lieu of in-person meetings.

Guidance from University Human Resources will be forthcoming advising staff on appropriate telecommuting practices, employee leave management, and related workplace questions.

Specific guidance for healthcare workers who have direct contact with patients will be forthcoming from the Executive Vice President of Health Affairs.

Please take steps to protect your health and the health of your coworkers by following guidance on prevention and care. If you feel unwell, please stay home.

IT FINALLY IS HERE, WE ARE CLOSED AND ONLINE

--- reply 1 (140 votes) ---
Rutgers could cancel classes for a year and people would still say why not two

Happy with the response though and it was the expected one even through all the people saying Rutgers wouldn’t do anything

--- reply 2 (74 votes) ---
I am glad the University took this action to protect the health of students and faculty. That being said, it is insane to see the excitement in students like they are in elementary school and they just got a snow day.

This isn’t fun. We are blessed to have an education that much of the world would kill for, and students are giggling that a virus that has killed thousands will allow them to miss a test-it’s honestly disgusting.

What if it was your Mom? Your Dad? Your Grandparents? Maybe consider that reality is not as far off as it seems. Maybe consider why every university in the tri-state area is closed, maybe consider why the National Guard is in New York. All I am saying is that this should be taken more seriously than it seems like students are.

I am a last semester senior, and that just got taken away. I am going to miss walking through campus, engaging with my peers and learning from some incredible professors. Watching spring bloom on a college campus is a beautiful thing, and that might be gone now.

I am not trying to sound condemning, I just hope for the health of those who are vulnerable students will act mature and take this seriously, and take this situation for what it actually is: One that is very concerning and somber.

I urge students to consider the following statements:

"Whatever you decide, consider the downside of being wrong, then consider the downside of being wrong in the setting of the opposite decision."
•
"Everything we do before a pandemic will seem alarmist. Everything we do after will seem inadequate.”

Again, this was the right move. To be honest, Rutgers was probably a little too late on this. That being said, it is not something to celebrate but it is something that demonstrates the gravity of the time we are living through.

Much love and stay safe.

--- reply 3 (72 votes) ---
So there is enough of a threat to cancel classes Thursday, but Wednesday we good to go to class

--- reply 4 (43 votes) ---
Is Rutgers the only school to claim we could be back April 3rd..? I feel like everyone else is doing it for the entirety of the semester

--- reply 5 (28 votes) ---
Unfortunately they are not required to pay you if you're unscheduled for the next two weeks. I hope they do come with an alternative because that's a really sucky position to be in

--- reply 6 (20 votes) ---
Princeton also moved online till April 5th. But both have said that they can extend it if the circumstances don’t get better.

--- reply 7 (15 votes) ---
It says that students living in residence halls should leave campus asap unless it isnt possible for you (prob talking bout international students)

--- reply 8 (15 votes) ---
So housing and meal swipes... reimbursed???
.
.
.
Lol jk Rutgers wouldn’t give us our money back 😂
