THREAD: The Best Food Spots On/Near Campus From a Senior Foodie
TOPIC: Quality Post

Foodies, freshman, transfers, hell upper classmen too, gather 'round for a world tour adventure of in my experience, what is the best food places near Rutgers in my 4 years here. An unusual post but hopefully really useful when you get tired of the dining hall, going on a date, or just love food like me. I hope you appreciate it and lets get started!

Halal: Crown Fish & Chicken Halal. You cant get food like this where im from so take my opinion lightly, but this place is way better than Halal Guys and their fried chicken is tasty too.
Recommended Dish: Lamb and Chicken Rice Platter.

Vegan: Veganized. Prices are a little high but if youre looking for a great vegan restaurant, this is it. Recommended Dish: Deluxe Burger, Crispy Fries, and Blueberry Soda

Japanese: Edo & Ramen Nagomi. Edo is a hidden gem with an anime influenced interior. They have japanese sides and huge rice bowls loaded with toppings like fried crab and Katsu Chicken. Its got a great vibe and is pretty consistent.
Recommended Dish: Fat cup and Edo Fries.

Ramen Nagomi is the best spot near campus for quality ramen. Its a tiny spot and its BYOB too.
Recommended Dish: Burnt Garlic Tonkatsu and Kakuni Don.

Viet: Indochine and Baguette Delite. Indochine is a student favorite for pho right on george street. Not much else to say here.
Recommended Dish: Beef Pho and Viet Iced Coffee.

Baguette Delite is a delicious Bahn Mi Shop. Their chicken is super tender and the bread is perfect.
Recommended Dish: Chicken Bahn Mi

American: Diesel & Duke, Wings Over Rutgers, Destination Dogs. Diesel is easily the best burger spot and everyone would agree. One of the best burgers I've ever had.
Recommended Dish: SPBB with Cajun Fries.

Wings over easily has some of the crispiest wings and they always come through.
Recommended Dish: Sweet Chile Boneless Wings and Waffle fries.

Destination Dogs is a restaurant and bar that serves a variety of gourmet hotdogs from kangaroo to alligator meat. Its cultural takes on each dog is amazing and super delicious. Instagram worthy plates.
Recommended Dish: Elotes Real and Deviled Eggs

Latin/Mexican: La Catrina and Esquina Latina. La Catrina is the best authentic Mexican you can get around here. their prices are fair and the restaurant interior is a culture bomb. If you crave tacos this is the spot.
Recommended Dish: Bistec Quesadilla or Pollo Tacos

Esquina Latina is a bar and restaurant that is known for having music performances and room for dancing. Its super fun and the food is pretty decent too.
Recommended Dish: Croquetas or Yuca Fries

Bubble Tea: Gong Cha, Truly Yogurt, Noodle Gourmet. I discovered boba at Rutgers and it changed my life. Gong Cha is the most authentic and it tastes great.
Recommended Drink: Brown Sugar with Pearls,

Truly yogurt isn't very authentic but they are delicious and have a great selection of flavors you might not have tried.
Recommended Drink: Hazelnut Milk Tea with Pearls

Noodle Gourmet has about 100 different drink combination you could make and they all taste great.
Recommended Drink: Dream Taro Slush or "Mi Amor"

Indian: Desi Tasty Grill. Prior to Rutgers I was very skeptical of indian food because of the unfamiliar aromas however I tried it on a whim and fell in love with this place. A true hole in the wall authentic indian spot.
Recommended Dish: Butter Chicken With Garlic Naan

Pizza: Krispy, PJs, Daniels. Krispy pizza is super conveneintly located spot, this is my go to for a quick filling lunch. You can smell their pizza from meters away and it never dissapoints. A very cheesy slice with high quality ingrediants.
Recommended Slice: Chicken Vodka or Pesto, & Cheese Fries

Chinese: Noodle Gourmet. Now before you all devour me, I havent had great chinese in my years here but this spot is the most decent. A true last resort for cravings.
Recommended Dish: Udon

Korean: KBG. KBG is just about the only Korean place near camous and its pretty good. They have Korean bowls and fried chicken as well. Perfect place for trying Korean food if you havent.
Recommended Dish: Bulgogi Bowl and Truffle Fries

Honorable Mentions: Chai Chenak, Freshii, Old Man Rafferty's, Fritz, Surreal Creamery, and Honeygrow.

I hope you all liked this list/recommendations and enjoy your time at Rutgers. Sometimes going out by yourself or with friends and enjoying time away from the books can seriously do wonders for your mental health. I can also make a post on worst spots to eat if you want! Cheers

--- reply 1 (38 votes) ---
I would add to the Noodle Gourmet recommendation, since you get to choose your soup topping, I highly recommend beef stew or roast duck.

--- reply 2 (30 votes) ---
The vegetarian dogs at Destination Dogs are absolutely amazing. They're not imitation meat or soy, they do something with beans & cheese and then fry it and it tastes amazing in its own right (and is also great because I'm both vegetarian and soy intolerant...)

Like they're so good that I have friends who only get the veggie dogs at ddogs even though they love meat. My usual go to is the Seven Leia Dip with a veggie dog.

That being said, they do have a completely vegan dog too, I've just never taken my chances with it because I'd be in for about 48 hours of pain afterward if the vegan dogs have soy in them

--- reply 3 (17 votes) ---
Well done! I wish I had seen a list like this a few years back!

A couple of quick plugs: For Pho, I prefer Pho Anh Dao in Edison. It's a short trip on Rt 1, but it's worth it. The beef pho is amazing. Also, another place with good food (and beer brewed in-house) is Harvest Moon. They have the staples, with some vegetarian options, and a nice Pad Thai they call Moon Thai.

--- reply 4 (11 votes) ---
I was trying to keep it somewhat classy! Everyone knows fat sandwiches are only good when youre hammered!

--- reply 5 (9 votes) ---
Would be cool to see places you think are overrated; I feel like some places get a lot more hype than they deserve, or are just popular because they used to be good but have gone downhill since

--- reply 6 (9 votes) ---
For bubble tea I'd def recommend Utepia! Its a tiny cafe and they make the best boba I've tried at Rutgers!

--- reply 7 (8 votes) ---
Definitely have a few in mind! Not sure if people would dig it on here. Dont wanna start a war 😂

--- reply 8 (7 votes) ---
Ok I need to add a few essentials:

Utepia- awesome locally owned taiwanese boba across the street from ramen nagomi, def my favorite within walking distance. Cafe Zio if you're willing to drive. Noodle gourmet has good cheap boba that I prefer over the other options. (Don't get Vivi's from KBG)

King of Gyro- THE HOLY GRAIL THE CLASSIC it's amazing please go. Delivery too. A lot better than Halal guys imho, and I think locally owned?

La Frontera- this one is a bit further but if you live around George St it's a 10 min walk. Found this place by complete chance and it's a hidden gem for sure. Literally the best empanadas ever, but order early bc they run out of stock pretty fast. It's also locally owned, and well known by locals. You can also call delivery.
Their empanadas, pan de bono, arepas...etc. chef kiss

El Sol- Amazing tacos and amazing worth, delivery available highly recommend.

Okii pokii- THE BEST poke bowls around. Quick drive in highland park, and of course, delivery. All the toppings, all the flavor. Would highly recommend over Poke Nagomi.
