THREAD: Interesting Excerpts from Returning to Rutgers
TOPIC: Official School Update

NOTE: As stated in the document, THESE GUIDELINES ARE EXPECTED TO CHANGE. NO DECISION FOR FALL 2020 WAS MADE YET.

On cleaning:

University Facilities has increased routine cleaning of frequently touched surfaces in all buildings, including doorknobs, elevator buttons, and other surfaces.

On masks:

Face coverings must be worn by all persons on campus when in the presence of others (within six feet) and in buildings in non-private enclosed settings (e.g., common work spaces, workstations, meeting rooms, classrooms, etc.)...Note that the face covering is not a substitute for social distancing, and the primary purpose of masks is to protect others, not self. Note that medical-grade masks and N95 respirators are reserved for healthcare workers, employees in specific environments, or employees performing specific job duties.

On gloves:

Gloves are not necessary for general use and do not replace good hand hygiene. Washing hands often is considered the best practice for common everyday tasks.

On identification (aka real freshman hours):

Given that face coverings will be commonplace, Rutgers ID cards must be worn at all times while on campus and/or in Rutgers buildings.

On dining:

If dining on campus, you should wear your mask or face covering until you are ready to eat and then replace it afterward. While eating, individuals should not sit facing one another.

On amenities:

Amenities spaces such as fitness facilities will remain out of service.

(and other lounges & common areas such as dining halls may have furniture rearranged or removed to promote social distancing, I would direct quote it but they take an entire paragraph to say that)

On elevator use:

When possible, avoid elevators and use stairs. When elevator use is unavoidable, no more than two people should be in an elevator at a time; the two people should be facing forward and at opposite corners to maximize distance between people, and speaking/sneezing/coughing should be avoided.

On elevator use in tall buildings:

In high-rise buildings or high-traffic buildings where very limited use of the elevator is not practical, do not crowd into the elevator cab and be aware of social distancing requirements while waiting for the elevator. If you are using the elevator, wear your mask or face covering, face forward, do not speak/sneeze/cough, and avoid touching the elevator buttons with your exposed hand/fingers. Wash your hands or use hand sanitizer with at least 60% alcohol upon departing the elevator.

On meetings & events:

In-person meetings are strongly discouraged and shall not exceed 50 percent of a room’s capacity, assuming individuals can still maintain six feet of separation for social distancing requirements. The number of people at and procedures associated with indoor and outdoor meetings and events are, at time of publication, governed by Executive Order(s) and are subject to change. Meetings and events must comply with requirements of current Executive Orders or other applicable regulations.

On social distancing in various university spaces:

A ton of scale diagrams were included in the document. They're very self explanatory.

Besides this information, there's just examples of signage that may be placed around Rutgers. and other information that's only relevant to faculty & employees. A lot of stuff in the document was also common sense. I picked out the parts that I didn't see in past discussions, the little things that nobody thinks about but are still important.

If anyone finds anything in the document that is relevant to students that I overlooked, comment it and I'll add it to this main post.

Edit: turns out I got pinned?? thank you mods!

--- reply 1 (82 votes) ---
NOTE: The only guideline related to buses, was telling employees that they have to wear facial coverings on public transportation if they use it to get to work. Kinda disappointed there ngl

--- reply 2 (45 votes) ---
I’m honestly not sure what they really can do with busses

If they mandate social distancing then they have to greatly reduce capacity on busses which then leads to an even greater crowd waiting at bus stops

The best they could do if they still want bus use imo is restrict bus capacity and mandate regular sanitization of the bus

Or

They could make all classes have some online option or be offered on multiple campuses if they need to be in person to reduce bus use that way

It’s a tough issue for sure

--- reply 3 (42 votes) ---
I really believe only labs, art classes, and clinicals will be in person. Otherwise, every other class is online so that complies with the reduced dorming capacity and the fact that our budget for next year accounts for less money due to housing, dining, and parking. This solves the bus issue since majority of us don’t have those in person classes. If you want to get away from your family and you have on campus housing, I would def start looking into how off campus housing can work for you because most people won’t be allowed on campus housing now.

--- reply 4 (33 votes) ---
This is how our buses inside looks like rn No seating directly behind the driver, and they use stripes to make people sit alternatively. (But if want to strictly keep 6 ft inside the bus, a 40ft bus probably could only hold 6 people including the driver lol). For disinfection of buses, asked the driver, but sorry the answer is still no... The only disinfection performed is when changing shifts, the next driver cleans the steering wheel and spray Lysol around driving area (the area in front of the white line). So far, all drivers are very strict on masks, once at downtown, some local people without masks wanna get on the bus, the driver refused and just drove away.

--- reply 5 (30 votes) ---
I’m sure that the average Rutgers bus is much more densely packed than an nj transit bus though

--- reply 6 (28 votes) ---
To be fair, NJ Transit is actually still running right now (requiring masks and distancing of course) and NJ hasn't seen a spike in cases because of that (in fact, we're on a steady decline -- we have one of the lowest infection rates in the country right now). NJT is also bigger than the Rutgers bus system (of course) so there's some hope. As long as people wear masks, viral loads won't float around as easily, and people are only on the buses for a couple minutes anyway.

Just playing devil's advocate here but assuming that people aren't crowding the buses & stops like the usual Rutgers, I think it could work...

--- reply 7 (27 votes) ---
In-person meetings are strongly discouraged and shall not exceed 50 percent of a room’s capacity, assuming individuals can still maintain six feet of separation for social distancing requirements. The number of people at and procedures associated with indoor and outdoor meetings and events are, at time of publication, governed by Executive Order(s) and are subject to change. Meetings and events must comply with requirements of current Executive Orders or other applicable regulations.

This seems like the strongest indicator that we’re not going back in-person. How could Rutgers possibly be complacent with this rule with their lecture halls containing 200+ students. Even if things are subject to change I can’t imagine that this guideline would change much in terms of the number of people allowed in in-person meetings

--- reply 8 (25 votes) ---
I’d have to guess that there won’t be huge lecture classes. Probably the majority of classes will be online and then labs/mason gross stuff will be in person.

I can’t imagine they’d have an 80 page document and it not even be the official decision just for us to be all online and not go back lol
