THREAD: I just had the worst experience at the dining hall. If you don’t want to read the post just please leave something at your table if you go to get more food, otherwise someone else will sit there before you come back

TW: racism

This one is gonna be a wild ride so buckle up. It was busy as hell in the Livi dining hall tonight and I couldn’t find a seat for like solid 10 minutes Finally I saw a group of 6-7 ppl get up from one of those 6 seat tables in the middle of the hall so I took a chair and left my backpack and jacket on it

I come back with food and there’s another dude on the on the opposite edge. No big deal. Not 30 seconds after I start eating the original 6 people come back and ask for the table back

???

I said they didn’t leave any bags or jackets behind to hold the table, the other guy said the same and that we needed a place to sit, this table was empty. We argued back and forth a bit like it was just like high schoil when the popular people gang up on you I guess. But then this one person of the six said “why don’t y’all go find some of your Patel brothers and eat with them before we move you out of our table.”

Ok for starters this is not your table (you guys didn’t even leave your bags behind like what’s normally the formality) but more importantly holy shit that’s a level of racism I never expected from anyone at Rutgers, at least in a public setting. Or in general tbh it was just shocking

At the end we took the L, got up and found another table with one of other guy’s friend (who ironically enough has a last name of Patel.) aside from not being a racist pos though do not anticipate your table at a dining hall to not get taken if you walk away and you no leave stuff to mark it. Oh and also you’re a racist fuck.

--- reply 1 (212 votes) ---
Whoever said that is going to have a bad time at rutgers given the Indian population

--- reply 2 (59 votes) ---
I'm sorry you had to go through this. There are assholes like this everywhere. Some guy (not at Rutgers) asked me whether I was born in this country.

Take a picture of this guy next time. Make him famous on the internet.

--- reply 3 (57 votes) ---
Sorry that happened to you bro. I would've been unable to help myself but to stretch my legs across another seat or two and kindly exchange some heated words. Don't let it get to you. There are just some people who feel like the world owes them shit and, when it doesn't bend to them, they get pissy.

--- reply 4 (39 votes) ---
Interesting note, our DEI policies do not currently recognize caste discrimination as many other universities do. The AAUP faculty contract netogations are trying to address it. Rutgers' was initially cold to the idea being advocated by the union but now seem to be coming around to adding it to the policy.

--- reply 5 (31 votes) ---
I'm convinced that some people here were raised in a barn. You had every right to that table! If this ever happens again--please, please do not get up. These people are so used to getting their way that we all need to collectively show them that no, the world doesn't revolve around them. What are they going to do, physically move you?

I'm really sorry that that happened to you, though. I hate people sometimes.

--- reply 6 (27 votes) ---
Bruh, they may think they're all that, but if the Indian population at Rutgers ever found out who they are, they're gonna end up being buried by the Patels

--- reply 7 (18 votes) ---
Ugh I’m sorry this happened- people are ruthless and it’s really sad. My best friends husband is Indian and this has happened to him at work. I’m so sorry!! Actions speak louder than words and you were the bigger person

--- reply 8 (9 votes) ---
In my case, I went to C2 Education for tutoring back in high school. The tutor, Yujie Ling (coincidentally happens to be a Rutgers grad), was rude and was the one who asked if I was born in this country. I immediately reported him to the center director, but not much was done. I then sent a bunch of emails to their corporate office, but they were all ignored. I finally get a response from them years later thanking me for my feedback 😂.

I didn't gain anything by going here, and it was a waste of money. I've heard from other people who've had a terrible experience and spent upwards of $10k (money was paid upfront), which is insane. I've been trying to warn as many people as possible about this dump.
