THREAD: The MOST Overrated Food Spots On/Near Campus by a (Very Cynical) Senior Foodie :)

Hey y'all shoutout u/inochimaru for such a wonderful and extensive list of great food spots at Rutgers. I've feeling really combative lately and thought why not spread some hate for some places that I think make absolutely mid food!

Dislcaimer: The best way to figure out whether my list is facts is if you try these places. Support your small businesses during COVID-19!

RU Hungry: The absolute KING of overrated cuisine. It's been on TV, but half the pizzerias on Easton make cheaper, fresher, and tastier fat sandwiches. Neubies used to be my go to but they permanently closed :(. Instead, I recommend Gio's! Also if you have a car, go to Hoagie Haven in Princeton for an "Ivy League Fat Sandwich" that you can even enjoy sober!

Krispy Pizza: What does everyone see in this place? The pizza is flavorless and tastes like cardboard, I'd rather eat at a chain like Domino's. I urge y'all to take the time to walk to easton and go to Daniel's for some absolutely elite Margherita or Vodka slices. PJ's is decent too, and Gio's is an absolute unit when you're trashed on a Saturday night.

Tacoria: I'm sorry sororities, but this ain't it chief. Their tacos are instagrammable but their quality of ingredients is meh at best and it's super overpriced for what you're getting (slightly better Chipotle). I'd rather get a $5 box from taco bell, and I highly recommend literally any of the authentic Mexican places around New Brunswick. If you got a car, absolutely take the time to do the 20 minute drive to Taqueria Maria in Monroe.

Surreal Creamery: Why the fuck do I have to pay $8 for stale cereal and flavorless ice cream that makes me look like the cookie monster? I will admit that their bubble tea is decent (Although Gong Cha is considerably better) and that the ice cream looks really pretty, but please go to Thomas Sweets for some really diabetes, artery clogging dessert (their fudge is underrated).

Mamouns: Someone called Halal Guys "basic bitch halal", and that made me spiral into an uncontrollable rage during my 3 hour long 8:40am class on a Wednesday. Tbh Halal Guys has annoyed the shit out of me with their constant price raises but at the same time it's still leagues better (and still cheaper) than Mamouns. Mamouns is the real basic bitch halal with flavorless meat, stale pita, and an absolutely garbage hot sauce. If you want something a bit more authentic, I recommend Efes or Evelyn's on Easton.

Dashen: Sorry guys, I love how homemade it tastes but it's so fucking overpriced man. If I'm eating food that tastes homemade I'm paying like $12 tops. I wish there was other Ethiopian cuisine around here and I'm open to suggestions!

Redd's: Never been here, just wanted to put them on blast for constantly violating COVID-19 restrictions. Fuck the business, and fuck the people who go here.

Hansel n Griddle: Yet another place that just gets traffic because it's a big name with a big sign. I can literally make their entire menu better at home. Just go to Scarlet 158 or Fritz's.

Please give the above places some business (even if I won't) and argue with me in the comments! I will continue to update this list.

Edit: Loving the arguments, this was way more controversial than I could ever imagine! Just a clarification, when I talk about fast food (Taco Bell, Domino's) I tend to crave that separate to "real food", which I consider the above options to all be. So when I say that I'd rather eat taco bell, I'm not directly comparing the quality of it to tacoria cuz I don't eat Taco Bell in place of it (I don't even eat much fast food lol)

Edit 2: I made one for the most underrated food joints near campus! https://www.reddit.com/r/rutgers/comments/lc9uqc/the_most_underrated_food_joints_near_campus_by_a

--- reply 1 (175 votes) ---
The fact that you would rather eat at dominos than krispy pizza shows that you have no taste in pizza. I’m not saying krispy is the best pizza ever but it’s light years ahead of dominos. Dominos is the lowest tier of trash.

--- reply 2 (130 votes) ---
Places like Hansel and RU hungry are top tier when eaten absolutely trashed, those places absolutely hit different at 2am after wobbling there from the bars. I'd say that's where most of their hype comes from, not the sober hours as a nice lunch.

--- reply 3 (43 votes) ---
As an employee at the NB Gong Cha, hearing you compliment us like that hits different 😌

--- reply 4 (36 votes) ---
One of the Hansel delivery guys started sending my friend inappropriate texts the morning after she ordered delivery for both of us (she provided her number for the delivery and he started being kinda gross after that) so neither of us order there anymore out of principle. The food wasn't that good anyway.

Also the Qdoba on Livi is by far the worst Qdoba in existence. Always out of fajitas and when I ask for guac they only put on like half a scoop.

Qdoba is good everywhere except for that one Qdoba

--- reply 5 (32 votes) ---
And they stay open the latest! If you have true demons and find yourself searching for food at 4am RU hungry is one of the only places open

--- reply 6 (30 votes) ---
Yea this one took me for a loop. Went from “barely better than chipotle” to “I’d rather eat Taco Bell” realll quick

--- reply 7 (24 votes) ---
Deadass, Krispy Pizza is overrated and overpriced af. Hansel is also just not good, I’d rather go to Jersey Mike’s or even fkin CASC Subway

--- reply 8 (23 votes) ---
Halal Guys being “basic bitch Halal” pretty accurately describes my feelings about it. That said, Mamouns is not good and overpriced.
