THREAD: Information, updates, and AMA about the faculty strike.
TOPIC: News

4/15 Update from Deepa and David: Our Escalation is Making Gains, Keep it Up!

Taken from an email sent to faculty, also posted on the facebook page.

We are writing to you directly from the bargaining table. After intense sessions going into the wee hours of the morning last week, we are making more progress tonight, and mediators are now assisting us as well. We are prepared to stay at the table for as long as necessary, round the clock, to avert a strike if possible.

Stay tuned for an update.

In solidarity,

Deepa and David

Deepa Kumar, President, Rutgers AAUP-AFT

David M. Hughes, VP, Rutgers AAUP-AFT

​

4/9 Official update and picket duty sign-ups.

As promised, here's the official word:

We cannot put out a date ahead of time because the administration would immediately get an injunction against our strike. That said, we should be clear that we are still in bargaining and that if we don't get our major demands met very soon, we will be forced to call a strike. If we must call a strike, we will immediately post it to all our social media, website and emails. And we encourage students to sign up now to picket duty which is another way to support us as well get a strike alert. 

4/9 Pseudo-update.

If you were on the Newark campus, you might have seen or participated in the rally outside the Board of Governors’ meeting.

The next bargaining session, where a contract may or may not be settled, is tomorrow, 4/10. The one after that is Monday, 4/15.

The strike has not been called yet, but the posturing is clear: I can only imagine that it depends on what goes on in that room tomorrow. I’ll keep you guys updated as I learn of what happens.

4/4 Update: Go to class.

The buzz about a strike happening on Thursday is totally erroneous. The post that suggested it seems to have interpreted the tele Town Hall -- which is happening on Monday, 4/8, at 7 PM -- as something entirely different (and got the day wrong, too). It's just a teleconference, whose description is as follows:

Our union will hold a telephone Town Hall led by officers to update all faculty and graduate union members on all questions related to a possible strike. All Rutgers AAUP-AFT faculty and grad members are welcome to participate, ask questions and raise concerns.

What is happening today is the student solidarity meeting, at 3:30 PM at 11 Stone Street.

I'm sorry if this dashes any of your hopes and dreams; I have no idea where the Thursday figure originated from.

4/3 Update ("A $40 Million Commitment to Faculty Diversity"):

I'll try to field some of the questions surrounding the email that just went out.

​

Diversity hiring and race/gender equity are two issues that the union is unambiguously fighting for. By the tenor of the comments on this sub, it's clear enough that not everyone's personal politics aligns with the union's. I want to stress here that the union's positions are decided by democratic consensus, and ask that you respect the democratic process regardless of whether phrases like "diversity hiring" and "gender equity" trigger your argumentative sensibilities.

​

Does this mean that the strike has been called off?

No. The strike has not yet been called in the first place. Again, the only thing that is official is the authorization of the strike, whose shadow will loom until the union announces otherwise.

​

So what does the email mean?

On one hand, we are absolutely considering this a victory, i.e. a concession from Central Administration to one of our demands.

On the other hand, this is only one of many high-priority demands, and Barchi's response here seems like the vaguest, least concrete one possible. What does "strategic funding" even mean? That's the kind of thing I'd write on a grant proposal that I forgot about until an hour before its due date.

And for that matter, if you can find $20 million in a matter of weeks (and only after the union authorizes a strike...) to dedicate to something like "strategic funding," what is that really saying?

​

But is the strike happening Thursday or not?! I have a project/an exam/homework due!

Unfortunately (for all of us, honestly), a faculty strike is not like Spring Break. For obvious reasons, the conditions surrounding a strike are volatile, prone to rumors, and subject to change at a moment's notice. You're in college, which presumably means that you're an adult: welcome to the adult world, where labor disputes happen. No one will have sympathy for you if you put off your responsibilities at the behest of a rumor. When and whether a strike happens will be at the decision of the full-time chapter's Executive Council. I cannot give you a more definitive answer than that because no such definitive answer exists.

​

---

​

Hi /r/rutgers,

I'm Brian, a physics PTL who some of you might have (had) for General or Analytical Physics Lab. I also serve on the part-time faculty union's leadership here. I've been seeing more and more questions and concerns pop up about the faculty strike, and I thought I'd chime in with some information. I also did my undergraduate degree here (class of 2015!), so I've been scarred by the bus system, too. Also, pre-2012 Livingston campus.

I think I have to disclaim this: this post is informed by my opinion and outlook as an individual who associates with both the union and University. None of the following is to be construed as an official communication of either organization.

0. Background information

Broadly speaking, there are four classes of faculty that teach at Rutgers. They are:

- Tenured and tenure-track faculty (T/TT), who have the highest level of job security. These professors, in theory, have a seasoned, accomplished academic career, and are responsible for the direction of the department's research and programming.

- Non-tenure track faculty (NTT), who are the majority of full-time teaching faculty. These professors are hired for one to five year terms, and are generally responsible for producing high-quality scholarship and developing their own classes in line with the department's structure.

- Teaching and graduate assistants (TA/GA), who are graduate students whose tuition is funded in whole or in part by, as their title suggests, assisting the full-time faculty with research or teaching. Not all graduate students have access to a TA/GA "line," though it's something of an implicit convention in graduate school that, upon acceptance to a graduate program, that you'll have some way of getting your tuition funded (e.g. through grants, TA/GA lines, PTL contracts, etc.)

- Part-time lecturers (PTL), who are part-time faculty generally hired by the semester. Some universities call this class of faculty "adjunct" or "contingent" faculty. Historically, the majority of these professors are hired to teach "cookie-cutter" classes (core requirements, lab classes, etc.), but over the past twenty years, the number of PTLs has exploded across all departments, and the teaching responsibilities of PTLs are looking more and more like those of NTTs but on a drastically lower pay grade. This is referred to sometimes as the “corporate adjunctification” of universities — you might have heard it cited as a reason for the discontent among professors.

These descriptions aren't rigid -- of course, the teaching and research needs of each department vary. For example, many professors in the performing arts programs are professional actors/dancers/musicians, and teach part-time under a PTL contract. The rigidity is in the collective bargaining units: the T/TT, NTT, and TA/GA contracts are exclusively negotiated by the full-time faculty union (representing ~4800 faculty), and PTL contracts are exclusively negotiated by the part-time faculty union (representing ~3000 faculty). Both of these unions are chapters of the AAUP-AFT.

1. So who's striking?

Currently (as of 4/2), no one is striking.

The full-time chapter issued a strike authorization vote, which was a yes/no vote that permits the full-time union leadership to call for a strike. This passed with 88% of the faculty voting "Yes".

This does not mean that a strike is imminent. Rather, it means that a strike has been authorized and agreed to by the full-time union's membership (i.e T/TT, NTT, and TA/GA workers), and can now be exercised at will.

This should also answer the "when will the strike be?" question. The answer is: it's still in the air. The next bargaining sessions take place April 10 and April 15; make of that what you will.

2. How would a hypothetical strike affect students?

No one wants a strike to negatively impact students. This is something that the union leadership agrees unanimously on. I don't mean to sound like a shill here, but we really are fighting for the quality of your education.

Shilling aside: a strike obligates an employee to withhold their labor. Teaching classes is obviously part and parcel of a professor's labor, so the immediate outcome of a strike would be that professors cancel their classes for its duration. This is not the same as the University (i.e. the administration) cancelling classes.

3. What if I need that class to graduate?!

Everyone here is painfully aware of the fact that a faculty strike has the potential for logistical difficulties in the lives of their students. Many professors have talked about -- and maybe have already communicated to you -- an unofficial rescheduling of classes, e.g. online, at a library, at their home, etc. to ensure that you finish your program of study. They are doing this at their own risk, and potentially without pay.

If you're worried, definitely ask your professor or TA about it. We're people too; I promise.

4. What would a hypothetical strike physically look like on campus?

Signs, chants, picket lines, empty classrooms, and maybe getting to see the more human side of your educators.

Personally, I'd like to be part of a picket outside Old Queens and do some Rutgers-themed version of the "KRUSTY KRAB IS UNFAIR" chant.

5. Are all the professors striking? What about PTLs?

I've heard many modes of this question over the past few days. The answer is: it's complicated.

Historically, (refer back to the memory of your high school US History classes!), labor disputes involve strikebreakers ("scabs"), employees who opt to work in spite of the union’s call to strike ("crossing the picket line").

The frustrating thing about the PTL position, by its nature, is that it fills something of a "strikebreaker-on-demand" role for the University. PTLs have been called, rather aptly, the Uber drivers of academia, being independently contracted to teach a class totally external to the operation of that class's department. Some of us teach at three or four universities in the tri-state area, isolated from the universities' internal politics and communications.

There are even some undergraduate PTLs (I used to be one) who don't even realize that they're actually faculty members of the university that they're also attending (yep, also me).

So while our official position is to honor the picket line, it might be the case that some PTLs simply don't know what's going on internally at Rutgers. The best thing to do, if you are unsure, is to ask your professor or TA. Honestly, you just might be the one informing them of the strike, which, to me, is a sad, hilarious reflection of the state of modern academia.

6. So...why are professors striking again?

The answer is, once again: it's complicated. Dr. Boikess outlined the major reasons in an article in the Star Ledger. The union's official literature has a wealth of information on the subject, too.

I wish I could give you some insider insight in a simple, bite-size answer, too, but the decision to authorize a strike was a democratic one among almost 5000 people (5000 academics, nonetheless...), and democratic operation is never quite that simple. I don't want nor intend to rehash the rhetorical arguments here; you can read the angry comments on the Rutgers AAUP Facebook group if you want your fill of that.

7. Can I get involved with the faculty union?

Yep! Strike preparation is in high gear at the union office at 11 Stone Street.

There is a student solidarity meeting there on Thursday, 4/4, at 3:30 PM, but you can show up any day between 9 AM and 8 PM to help make signs, circulate fliers, etc.

At Rutgers-Newark, there’s going to be a student solidarity meeting on Wednesday, 4/3, at 11 AM in Conklin Hall, Room 245.

8. I disagree with the union's position and don't think professors should strike. What can I do about it?

You're more than welcome to take advantage of your right to free association and organize a picket. You can also post sardonic comments on social media. Isn't democracy great?

9. Further questions?

You're welcome to AMA about the potential strike in the air; I'll try to make an effort to answer. But as a Rutgers employee, I'm contractually obligated to wait until three days after it stops being important before responding.

--- reply 1 (213 votes) ---
Rutgers is unfair! President Barchi is in there, standing at the concession! Plotting his oppression!

--- reply 2 (125 votes) ---
Brian, thank you for this explanation. I hope the faculty can receive a fair deal, but if a strike is necessary, you have many students' support.

--- reply 3 (43 votes) ---
It's accurate in a sense: because the strike authorization vote went through, calling the strike is now at the decision of the full-time chapter's executive council. They can do so now, or in an hour, or Thursday, or not at all.

There's a lot of strategic consideration that goes into the decision. The best answer I can give is that "it's possible."

--- reply 4 (35 votes) ---
Hi Brian, so I’m curious how the strike would work for a faculty member with tenure who is also engaged actively in research, ie many of the teaching faculty in the department of physics. Does the union require that these sorts of professors, as well as anyone working under them in a research capacity who holds a TA/GA position, withhold labor related to their research? Essentially, will the strike affect the operating status of the research labs at the University? Thanks.

--- reply 5 (32 votes) ---
We've seen undergrad enrollments go up 40% since Barchi, and tuitions increase 40%, but haven't had a corresponding increase in the number of full-time instructors to match the teaching load. That means overcrowded classrooms, lack of student advising, exhausted teaching staffs, and an overall feeling of demoralization. It's an academia-wide problem, but here we have the opportunity to take a stand and win a fair contract that serves the students, faculty, and people of New Jersey the way they deserve.

--- reply 6 (29 votes) ---
wish we had more memes related to striking in our cultural consciousness than an obscure SpongeBob moment. theres a lot of work to do in this country to bring the idea if worker solidarity back to what it used to be

--- reply 7 (19 votes) ---
For now, I have stickied this post, as it answers many questions we have been seeing recently, and certainly will continue to see if a strike ensues. As a reminder, these are not the positions of the University or directly of the Union, but rather of an employee who is involved in a potential strike. These are not official positions. Treat them as you would anybody else's thoughts.

Please keep the conversation civil, and be respectful of /u/unpoetically's time and position.

--- reply 8 (18 votes) ---
Thanks for this post. It helped answer a lot of questions I had about this. There's two things I'm still confused about.

Why does the union keep claiming the university is not negotiating with them, when the university meets with them on a regular basis and they've won some major concessions?

Do public sector employees have the legal right to strike in NJ? I've heard that they don't, but curious on your take.
