THREAD: Rutgers is Gentrifying New Brunswick as We Speak

Senior here, who has lived in College Ave 3/4 years. I’ve always talked about this topic to my friends, but I’m up way earlier than I should be and don’t know what else to do.

TLDR: College Ave by 2030 will expand out past George St and Delafeld and push out almost all non Rutgers tenants through appreciating property prices and rent due to the indiscriminate development of infrastructure.

Freshman Year: My freshman year was plagued by COVID-19, however, I was still able to live in the Busch suites in the spring and had a lot of friends who took discounted leases at several apartment buildings. Specifically, the Verve, Standard, and SoCam apartments. These apartments were enormous in size, with Standard being the largest spanning 21 floors. All were built prior to my freshman year, and were funded by large commercial real estate companies which poured hundreds of millions of dollars into making these “luxury” apartments within A FEW MONTHS. Put it together, and you see that these apartments were a dawn of a new era, college living dependent on shoddy infrastructure, yet a way of living that gives the consumer (a college student) a sense of luxury and affordability……at least at the time.

Sophomore Year: The slow but gradual reopening of all campuses ushered in a ton of new business replacing the old, somewhat. A lot of restaurants and bars weren’t able to recover from COVID, and thus either immediately closed down, or tried to operate and slowly bled until forced closure. The College Ave Easton strip we know today was considerably different from the one we knew 4 years ago. Almost all restaurants were local owned, small businesses that were often made up of Rutgers alumni or New Brunswick residents. Now, there are a record amount of franchises in Easton alone. See Auntie Annie’s, the new Five Guys, Mamouns, Tribos (forgive me for missing any, but you get the point).

Bringing these new, more expensive franchises/restaurants isn’t the restaurants’ fault, nor is it necessarily a bad thing. However, these new leases are often substantially more expensive than the old ones that were locked in and had some level of tenant rate security. Franchises are much more willing to pay a premium because of the higher revenues they draw in (and the various ways they are able to make money aside from pure sales).

However, the gentrification isn’t that bad. New Brunswick still seems the same, relatively…

Unfortunately, junior year was a different story.

Rent prices in these luxury apartments skyrocket, almost by 100%. These apartment complexes knew that they had pricing power, and that they offered again, a “luxury product”. Combine that with a disproportionate amount of students wanting to live in College Ave (and a record high undergraduate population), and you essentially have a demand bottleneck for these apartments, resulting in ridiculous prices that average T2 cities (Austin, Boston, Seattle). In turn, this drives up the rent for neighboring houses on College Ave, due to again, supply and demand. When people see a sticker price of 1300 for a single in a 4BR, and then see a house near the Verve which is offering 900 for a single, they are much more likely to consider the house rent a steal (despite it being 700 merely a couple years ago).

On the George St side, a new business was almost moving out every week. Again, local mom and pop shops, small restaurants were the biggest victim of COVID-19 and this absolutely decimated the New Brunswick area. A plethora of higher quality restaurants, smoke shops, and bars open up which are concurrent with the cleaning up of the George St area (much more police patrolling and presence, slowly forcing out the homeless). Even more apartment buildings are popping up, such as the Aspire, which is the highest high rise thus far.

Senior Year, the worst year by far:

Gentrification operates on an exponential curve. It is not linear in any sense because of the first mover advantage. The large real estate funds saw the success of Verve, Standard, and SoCam and the ridiculous cash flows they were generating on the property without having to pay ridiculous overhead, and have moved to appropriate every inch of land left in New Brunswick with their fast luxury high rise apartments. As I speak, there is a huge apartment complex being built on High St , which is expected to charge upwards of $2,000 for a studio. There is an apartment complex almost finished on Morrell St, and another one on Central St. All of these apartments will charge similar prices to the High St complex I mentioned above. To add to that, Rutgers is expanding their campus by building several institution backed buildings past the NB train station (Bell Labs and Tel Aviv collaboration). This is a clear cut sign of what Rutgers aims to do, which is eventually expand out into all of New Brunswick.

Even if you look demographically, 3-4 years ago, Guilden, Hamilton, Delafeld were majorly populated by New Brunswick residents. Now, it is majorly Rutgers Students, who are slowly expanding due to the rent price creep I mentioned above. Landlords also love this, because students objectively provide more reliable cash flows and improve the marketability of a house which is off campus.

SO IS IT A BAD THING?

To keep it short, it’s great for students and Rutgers. Gentrification does reduce crime and create a more stabilized municipality. It is terrible for the families and residents who have lived here their whole life, and are getting displaced without a say. There will be almost no affordable housing by the year 2030 in New Brunswick, and the campus will indiscriminately expand on its own through the act of demand bottlenecks and expensive property raising rent all across. Kids will be living on streets no one has even heard of before, and new franchises will continue to move in, gladly paying expensive premiums to open business in a college town. I am not providing a solution or taking a side, I am simply stating things the way I see them. For this reason, everything I have said is purely anecdotal. If you disagree with me, great. I do not claim to know everything. I only know what I see and read.

--- reply 1 (55 votes) ---
It’s been going through gentrification for 25 years with its ups and downs. I consider now a downtime given all the closed stores and issues downtown isn’t nearly as friendly, safe, or crowded as it use to be.

--- reply 2 (43 votes) ---
Gentrification in New Brunswick has been an ongoing process since forever. The city's done an admirable job building housing to keep up with demand, those apartment buildings housing many more people than lived there previously. But as on campus housing gets more expensive and the student body becomes better able to bear the cost, apartment buildings become more attractive.

edit: there, their, and they're are HARD

--- reply 3 (43 votes) ---
Even before that. I graduated in 2012 and remember having discussions about how NB wanted to keep young working adults for longer - so had to keep changing.

--- reply 4 (28 votes) ---
Any town with a train to New York is currently being gentrified, and honestly I’m all for it. It’s unfortunate for the families but I don’t think they’ll be complaining when their house value quadruples

--- reply 5 (22 votes) ---
I mean, what your describing has been going on for YEARS now. When I first started at Rutgers in 2009, College Ave was a shit hole (and we loved it). Food trucks across the street from Scott Hall in a semi-vacant parking lot, I lived in repurposed Army Barracks from WW2 on Busch Campus (RIP Davidson), and a room on Stone St in what some would call a "condemnable" building was roughly $400-500/month.

My senior year I lived on Easton Ave in an inherited house (the people who rented it before us passed it down to us by telling the landlords they would find them the next tenants for a reduced rate on their last months rent). We lived above a taxi cab place, next to Tito's (Hot Dog joint; full name was Tito and his Junkyard Dogs), and across the street from R.U Hungry.

The nicest place to live back then was the apartments between CA and C/D but the transportation to and from was pretty shitty so mainly it was athletes who lived there (they didn't go out much and had their own transportation for practice).

From the time I started to the time I graduated, Rutgers was constantly trying to buy property and expand deeper into College Ave. I remember how furious when I graduated with a shit-ton of debt only to find out they started building high rise apartments JUST after I left. The poor person working at RU Telefund that day.

This has been Rutgers initiative for the past 20 years though. IMO, there are two types of colleges. One where the school is placed in a pre-existing city and tries to integrate into the surrounding area. The other is where the school has nothing around them and a city gets built up to support the college.

Some examples of schools are placed in pre-existing cities are NYU, TCNJ, Stevens Institute of Technology, and Stockton. Examples of schools where cities build around them are Penn State, Syracuse, Princeton, and Ithaca.

The major difference between the two is the industry around them. Without Happy Valley, there is no Penn State. Without the businesses in Syracuse, there is no Syracuse University. Without Rutgers, there's most certainly a New Brunswick (they have J&J and other companies).

Rutgers is trying to be like Penn State and Syracuse because typically the largest and most prestigious schools have cities built around them. Instead of it happening naturally, they're just expediting the process on the backs of the New Brunswick inhabitants.

It started with buying a medical and dental school (UMDNJ), increasing enrollment drastically, and now raising the property values with over-inflated construction that isn't needed (but I'm sure is wanted because, ya know, who DOESN'T want to live in a 2-bedroom high ceiling loft).

It'll continue to happen until funds drops. That means enrollment needs to go down, costs need to go up, and most likely Federal intervention regarding what State schools can and can't do to get Federal Funding.

The same thing is happening in South Jersey with Rowan University as I'm sure it's happening all across the country. Universities, specifically Public Universities, are trying to turn into indespebsible, too big to fail, congomerates with no end in sight.

--- reply 6 (20 votes) ---
Only the families that own homes in the area. Families that need to rent may be forced out of the area.

--- reply 7 (16 votes) ---
New Brunswick is not and will never be a college town. Rutgers is more than just NB, it’s just that right now there’s a lot of building happening in NB since it was long overdue.

Idk if y’all have ever been to the other side of NB but that area is desolate, there’s plenty of space to build housing. It’s sad to hear about the mom and pop shops, but that’s happening everywhere, it’s not just a Rutgers issue.

--- reply 8 (13 votes) ---
FWIW gentrification hasn't touched the south-west end of NB at all. The entire block after RWJ is just a ton of working class people of color. Many of them work in and around Rutgers but tbh the area could use a glow-up. I realize I probably sound like an asshole but the way to counteract gentrification is a responsible approach to community development. Of course, with developers and landlords being how they are - this is easier said than done.
