THREAD: I’m building a Rutgers bathroom ranking site — need your reviews 🚻

I’m making a Rutgers bathroom ranking site and I’m trying to collect actual student feedback so the rankings are legit.

Right now I need more reviews from people who’ve used bathrooms around different campuses. If you have opinions on which ones are clean, awful, underrated, crowded, or surprisingly good, please drop a review on the site or comment here.

I want this to be based on real Rutgers student experience, not just random guesses.

https://ruflush.com

What’s the best bathroom on campus? And what’s the absolute worst?

--- reply 1 (31 votes) ---
Bathroom cleanliness can vary by the minute.

It's important to have up to date information as well as a streamlined (lol) approach to reviews. Tap to rate 1-5 stars along with common tags like "low/no TP" or "previous user didn't flush" will make ratings a pain free experience.

I look forward to seeing how you'll mine the data. I'm wondering how long the line is for the bathroom during football games, or how often people cry in the stalls during finals week.

A check-in feature and achievements like Swarm would be cool, but keep it anonymized. It'd be weird if someone on the dean's list also ended up winning "Turd Smuggler of the week" a couple times

--- reply 2 (6 votes) ---
haha I did this on an instagram account called @bathroomjudge a few years back when I was a student. Wrote a few pretty long reviews of some bathrooms across campus if you want to check them out :) might get a kick out of em

--- reply 3 (5 votes) ---
Sorry about that! Currently, there isn’t a feature to add new buildings directly. All the existing locations were manually added based on the campus map, and I’m not very familiar with some areas like Cook/Douglass, so a few buildings are still missing.

I’ll be adding more buildings (including Lipman Hall ) in the next update. I’m also considering adding a user-submission feature so everyone can contribute their own reviews in the future!

--- reply 4 (5 votes) ---
Late 2000s for me. Floor 2B, where I always liked to go to study or just read. It wasn't necessarily the most modern bathroom, but it was amazingly private for a bathroom in a public building.

--- reply 5 (5 votes) ---
My words of encouragement (sharpie graffiti) are probably still on the stalls in the Scott Hall men's bathroom. Those shitters aren't nice, but they build character and camaraderie.

OP, thanks for doing this. Sometimes we need to know what type of toilet to sit on depending on the circumstance.

--- reply 6 (3 votes) ---
My friends and I love the website! One suggestion is adding a option to indicate which gender restroom, as we thought it can sometimes vary for both side

--- reply 7 (2 votes) ---
ah no worries!! i thought i'd missed something, but a user submission feature sounds great! at any length i will make sure people don't repeat my mistakes...

--- reply 8 (2 votes) ---
I’ll make sure to add the stadium bathrooms in the next update . Thanks for the suggestion!
