THREAD: im loosing hope and need help

i’m becoming helpless. 19m sophomore at rbs, supply chain major. my father kicked me out of the house for being gay, and my mother had been drained from her bank accounts because my father has been financially abusive. my mother and i have been suffering from physical and emotional abuse for quite some time. my senior year of high school, i was in a cps case and the case manager deemed my situation to “not be abusive.” i am fully independent and pay my own rent for an apartment off campus, but even after filing the fafsa independently and submitting a pj dependency override form, i am still not eligible for financial aid as i have “no evidence of being homeless before high school.” i have a social worker here at rutgers who helps with transitional housing, and i use the basic needs office often for food and other essentials. they have written letters on my behalf to support my case, but i’m still not eligible for aid. i know that i’m eligible for grants based on federal criteria, but one stop has been very stingy. i have no friends, and i recently just got on three different medications for adhd, depression, anxiety, and mood. the side effects of these medications have made me extremely tired. i’ve been losing weight (lost 10 pounds in one week), and my focus has actually gotten worse as i’ve become careless about tasks. my psychiatrist told me that all of these symptoms are normal and that i have to wait some time until i stabilize. i have three missing assignments for one class, and i haven’t even been able to dedicate time due to feeling drained and tired. i’ve informed my ta and he’s been understanding, but i need to complete these assignments asap or my grade is cooked. i need work opportunities to support myself, pay rent, and eat. i don’t qualify for fws due to filing the fafsa late, and i’ve been mass applying to on-campus jobs on handshake, but i haven’t gotten anything. i’ve even personally emailed staff who work at student centers, recreation, the art museum, and various departments, but they only accept fws students. i’ve also asked restaurant owners for places on easton ave, and nobody is hiring. on top of that, i got rejected from two summer internships that i applied to, and i’m not getting any responses. i got laid off from three of my on-campus jobs during freshman year due to departmental budget cuts. my grandmother has been pressuring me to find a partner to eventually marry, live with him for at least two years to ensure stability, and then have kids or adopt early, but i’m way too unstable to do so, and i haven’t met any gay guys to even talk to (not even just to date). i’ve been on dating apps and most guys my age don’t even reach out to me (i don’t think they perceive me as attractive), and it’s all older men who want to hook up. i can’t even wake up early, i haven’t been exercising because i’m losing weight from not eating, and my outlook on life has been so dull. i always feel on edge and like i’m hanging on by a thread. i need support. someone please give me some direction. if anyone is aware of job opportunities, please let me know. also, if anyone is going through something similar or is a gay guy looking for friends, please pm me, maybe we can hang out.

--- reply 1 (124 votes) ---
As a mom of a teen in the LGBTQ community, I want to give you a big hug and tell you it's all going to be OK. It is, eventually. Right now it feels hard and you are trying to deal with family issues, depression and anxiety AND school. That is so huge.

You are AMAZING. You got yourself out of that house, into school, you are working toward a better life for yourself. These are such big things and you need to give yourself some credit for being so brave.

Here are some resources:

Basic Needs Center:
https://ruoffcampus.rutgers.edu/basic-needs
"We connect students with essential resources—like food, housing, financial assistance, and mental health support—so you can focus on your education with fewer worries."
College Avenue Student Center room 112
email them at basicneeds@echo.rutgers.edu

Emergency Aid Fund:
https://ruoffcampus.rutgers.edu/basic-needs/emergency-aid

Also, reach out to The Pride Center of NJ that is right next door in Highland Park. You will find community there and support.
https://www.pridecenter.org/

The Bayard Center for Social Justice is also really wonderful. They are in Princeton.
https://www.rustincenter.org/

I'm a non-traditional student at RU right now. I'd like to report your situation to the Share a Concern program. If you are OK with this, please message me your name. I'll report that you are struggling. They review all concerns within 1 business day.
You will get through this. You are reaching out for help, which is huge.

--- reply 2 (62 votes) ---
already did - they’ve helped me with informing my professors of my medication side effects but given my situation there’s not much they can do in regards financial support - the emergency fund is also very limited too… my social worker can only do so much as well

--- reply 3 (12 votes) ---
First off, your grandmother ain’t shit right now. It’s your choice what you want to do with your love life, not hers. I know overbearing relatives can suck. The dating stuff can come later.

You said got denied CPS, but have you and/or your mom applied for SNAP or cash/rent assistance? Do you mean that you got denied that too after the school case manager helped you?

Also the FAFSA just opened recently I think, so I’d do that ASAP. If you don’t have any income coming in, then that will help you in the long run.

Mutual aid groups can help you out. I don’t know how active they are now, the Central Jersey DSA chapter had a pretty active mutual aid scene in NB. They may be able to help you. I’m not a member btw, I just used to interact with some of them during my volunteer days: https://central.dsanj.org

https://linktr.ee/CNJ_DSA_MA

I’m really sorry by the way. I recently escaped poverty and homelessness in June. I know how terrifying and painful the instability is. It’s hell. But you’re getting help. Just keep communicating your needs.

--- reply 4 (11 votes) ---
Sorry that you’re going through a tough time. Definitely use the resources that Rutgers has to offer. I added the link to the Student Legal Services department in another comment.

Not sure what students positions are left with Dining but it doesn’t hurt to apply. If you’re super interested in a specific location, go there after you apply and ask to speak to a manager.

Dining jobs page: https://food.rutgers.edu/about-us/employment-opportunities

--- reply 5 (10 votes) ---
Hey, I’m sorry you’re going all through this, but there are multiple internships available on indeed and here is a direct manufacturing supply chain 12 month intern right here in Somerset. Please check it out on indeed or L’Oréal.com careers

--- reply 6 (10 votes) ---
i use uwill and meet with someone on a weekly basis, but these issues are pervasive in my life it’s hard not to think of them… the anxiety medication im on is certainly making me more calm, and im working with my therapist to understand how to tackle my issues a bit better - thank you tho for your support ;)

--- reply 7 (9 votes) ---
They do pull applications when they need to hire students but the needs vary per location. Dining has 19 different locations. Other than the dining halls, you can just walk into any of the locations without a meal plan. For the dining halls, you can just ask to speak to a manager where you would swipe in. No meal plan is needed to do that.

--- reply 8 (8 votes) ---
i have a meeting with my supply chain professor to talk about career opportunities and am doing mock interviews with people at ces… regardless of the amount of internships and co-ops i apply for, companies are being unresponsive… im trying my best though to network internally but finding a internship/co-op is great not only for work experience but to have some income which i need to live stability in my apartment
