THREAD: Ultimate Guide to On-Campus Housing for Continuing Students
TOPIC: Housing

I have exams I don't want to study for & I've seen one too many posts with one-liner housing questions on this subreddit thanks to Covid making everyone clueless so here we go. Note that this is NOT the process for incoming freshmen.

DISCLAIMER: This is how housing works in a NON-COVID year. Nobody knows how Covid will affect any processes or demand for housing.

Definitions

Lottery Number: The number you get once you enter the housing process. They range from 1 to as high as 11,000 in some years. The lower (closer to 1) your number is, the better. Lottery numbers are used as a "tiebreaker" when deciding which groups get to select earlier; seniority/reverse seniority points are slightly more important. (e.g. a group of rising sophomores with a lottery number of 3 still have no chance at getting the Yard)

Seniority Points: Every student is assigned seniority points based on their class year. This year, the classes of 2021/22 get 4 points, 2023 gets 3 points, 2024 gets 2 points, and finally, the incoming class of 2025 gets 1 point. Apartments are selected based on seniority points

Reverse Seniority Points: Basically the inverse of seniority points. 2021/22 gets 1 point, 2023 gets 2 points, 2024 gets 3 points, and the incoming class of 2025 gets 4 points. Doubles and suites are selected based on reverse seniority (this is done because Rutgers guarantees that all sophomores who want housing will get it somehow)

Completed Credits: These are the credits you will have done BEFORE this semester, Spring 2021. Singles are selected based on your number of completed credits, your lottery number and seniority points do not matter for singles BUT you still need to fill out the housing application to get one.

Process

STEP 1: The Housing Application. The housing application is just a general application where you indicate your interest in housing. Anyone who's interested in any kind of housing, from doubles to singles to apartments to special housing like honors/LLCs has to fill this out. Filling this form out is NOT BINDING, but it will give you a housing lottery number & will make you eligible to select housing during the housing process. If you don't fill this out in time, you'll have to ask to be placed on the housing waitlist and that is no longer a guarantee for housing.

STEP 2: Getting Lottery Numbers. On April 20th this year, everyone who filled out the housing application will get emailed their lottery number, number of seniority points, and number of reverse seniority points. This is around when people start finding roommates/groups since they know what housing they'll have a chance for, usually a megathread is posted on this subreddit for people to find roommates.

STEP 3: Apply for the type of housing you want. The Housing Selection Timeline lists out when sign-ups for each type of housing (singles, Livi/Yard, Busch/Cook apartments, suites, doubles) begin. This is also non-binding, and it's where you'll be putting down your roommates' names & submitting them. ALL PEOPLE IN YOUR GROUP fill this out, you should see a "confirmed" next to each roommate's name in your group if you all do it correctly.

THIS IS WHERE LOTTERY NUMBERS AND POINTS COME INTO PLAY. For each type of housing, Rutgers uses the seniority points & lowest lottery number of each group to assign you a timeslot where you will be selecting an actual space.

STEP 4: Timeslot Notification. On the notification day listed on the housing selection timeline, you/each person in your group will receive an email stating the day and time you have to log into the housing portal to pick your room. If you/your group do not make the point/lotto number cutoffs for that type of housing, the email you get will say that.

If you do not get a timeslot for the housing you want, you can still sign up for any of the other housing types that come after. This is the reason selection goes in order from most limited (singles) to least limited (doubles).

STEP 5: Choose Your Space. At your assigned day and time, ONE PERSON in your housing group/duo (or yourself for a single) will log into the housing portal, and should be able to see a link leading you to the selection portal. Here, you'll be presented with a few filters to help narrow down to specific campuses/buildings & a list of rooms to choose from based on the filters. Choose quickly because others will be choosing at the same time and you could have rooms sniped from right underneath you & your mouse cursor. ONCE YOU PICK A ROOM AT THIS STEP, YOU ARE LOCKED INTO YOUR HOUSING CONTRACT. Once your room is selected successfully, you should get an email notification with your room assignment!

Tips

- Try your VERY HARDEST for a full housing group. This means 6 people for suites, 4/3/2 for apartments, and 2 for doubles. The timeslot cutoffs are determined primarily by seniority/reverse seniority points, and having an "incomplete" group automatically puts you behind all the other full groups in the pecking order.

- For Livi/the Yard, try to have MAX seniority points. In normal years, Yard and Livi cutoffs were almost always at a full 16 seniority points (4 rising seniors). Don't waste a good lotto number by having a 15 or 14 point group.

- Floor plans of every single dorm are available online. If you want to see the sunrise or sunset or the Livi Plaza or don't want a room next to a bathroom or whatever, you can optimize for that & have specific room numbers chosen by the time you select so that you're not scrolling through multiple pages of rooms and trying to picture them in your head.

- Past housing cutoffs are available on this subreddit. The search bar exists for a reason.

- KEEP TRACK OF ALL THE IMPORTANT DATES. A friend of a friend of mine got a lottery number of 3 one year, and ended up in the Quads because they forgot to select housing. Do not be that person.

- (This is more common sense but) If you find a potential roommate on Facebook or Reddit or elsewhere that you don't know beforehand, TRY TO MEET THEM AT LEAST ONCE before going through with housing just to make sure they are who they say they are, especially if you'll be relying on this person for their lottery number or seniority points. I know multiple groups of people who got screwed because the random person they chose didn't have the number or seniority they said they did. (And by meet, I mean safely since we are still in a pandemic)

This post was fueled by procrastination & a massive headache that came on about halfway through writing it. If any upperclassmen have stuff to add, comment it below and I'll include it in the post. Good luck with the housing process everyone :)

--- reply 1 (12 votes) ---
Forgot to mention this! Everyone submits it, its how your group gets confirmed together (you all have to pick each other as roommates)

--- reply 2 (8 votes) ---
For the less selective housing (doubles, some of the Cook apartments) you actually should be able to get in solo and then either pick a room that has some people in it already, or pick an empty room & wait for others to fill it. This doesn't work for the popular apartments or suites though. And the kind of housing you want is really up to you, all of them offer something different and all of them have pros and cons.

--- reply 3 (5 votes) ---
Absolutely - apply now for a number, no one will be choosing where they live until after the 20th when housing application timeslots start up

--- reply 4 (5 votes) ---
Lowest number. So if the numbers are like 200, 5000, 700, 10000, your group's number is 200

--- reply 5 (4 votes) ---
It depends on what you apply for.

For Busch Suites it’s nearly impossible to get in unless you have 6 sophomores (no juniors, freshmen or seniors) since reverse seniority points are required for suites (and freshmen can’t get suites.)

Other dorms such as the BAMM complex are reserved solely for freshmen and their upperclassmen RAs

For BEST you need to apply separately

Idk about other things but it really depends on the type of dorm you want more than the campus (though some campuses, like CA, are more popular than Douglass, for example.)

I don’t know how easy it is to get into generic dorms on busch outside of BAMM but if you have a decent housing number you’ll be fine.

--- reply 6 (3 votes) ---
Yeah generally the Cook/Doug apartments are not as high demand, but Henderson is Douglass housing so your group would need to be all DRC women.

I'd also still recommend having a group of 4 just in case -- even if you get into a Henderson apartment with a group of 3, ResLife keeps track of which apartments have empty spaces so they can fill your apartment with whoever is next in line on the waitlist, whenever they want -- if this isn't something your group wants then finding a 4th person & vetting them on your own might be slightly better

--- reply 7 (3 votes) ---
So i’m trying to live on campus for the fall but don’t know if i’m going to be here for the spring does anyone know if i’d be able to do that or if they’d charge me for living there for two semesters

--- reply 8 (3 votes) ---
I've been around for 3 years of selections now & when I was a clueless freshman I read back on some of the older posts too lol
