THREAD: I have been disillusioned by CS
TOPIC: Quality Post

To start off I would like to mention I didn’t major in CS just because I can make a lot of money I genuinely like coding and software dev. The money isn’t the only motivator.

There are way too many people in this goddamn major. Not just here at Rutgers, literally just every university. I don’t understand how everyone is going to get jobs. I’m a senior right now and none of my cs friends have offers. Most of us haven’t even been interviewed once from hundreds of jobs we apply to. I have summer internships at Meta from last summer and JPM from the summer before last on my resume and it still does not do shit. There’s a tiktok floating around of Meta interns screaming on a boat “give us return offers” I was part of that bruh

Like how tf is this gonna work there are legitimately hundreds of thousands of people laid off looking for software development jobs and on top of that us 2024 college graduates. Don’t forget the 2023 chaps who still haven’t found a job too. If the recruiter for not strictly a tech company but needs SWE roles filled sees 2 resumes: one is me a upcoming college grad with intern experience and the other is the guy who was laid off by Google because he did literally nothing at work for months or years and his google maps ev routing role was deemed redundant, who is the recruiter going to pick? The former googler bc Google.

At this point I think I’m just going to do an MBA or find a retail job because holy shit this is some bullshit. Man who the fuck told everyone to major in cs, go do business the entirety of RBS is open for you. Go be an actor, go become a fuckin chemist or some shit. Fuck bro if u love engineering that much for the love of god pick something other than computer engineering. Hell comm major and go be a huge PR specialist or ghost writer for Elon. Just please, don’t fall into the purgatory that is CS. CS is fine as it is, but you’re so done for when you need a job job

End rant

--- reply 1 (148 votes) ---
As someone who works in marketing and hires student interns. Out of 140 resumes, 100 are from It and computer science people. I can tell it’s super over saturated.

--- reply 2 (104 votes) ---
Everyone thinks they’re going to do CS, get a FAANG job, and become a billionaire tech bro.

Where most end up working in entry level tech, passed over for anything meaningful, and then spit out when the next gen of CS majors come online doing the same shit for less money.

Just do what you like and the money will follow because you’ll do it better than those who went into it just for the money.

--- reply 3 (100 votes) ---
CS is to Gen Z what Law School was to Millennials. All that propaganda about “a shortage of STEM workers” was really “(low pay) STEM workers”

--- reply 4 (63 votes) ---
square quickest tie terrific kiss quaint adjoining file grey rhythm

This post was mass deleted and anonymized with Redact

--- reply 5 (48 votes) ---
How tf are you past JPM and meta and can’t get an interview send me your resume bro

--- reply 6 (47 votes) ---
I remember a few years ago CS was supposed to be the fastest growing job market. Of course it would be my luck that the moment I graduate this job market shrivels up. Now I have to spend the next year getting screamed at every day by my parents to find a job as if I haven’t been through hundreds of applications already.

--- reply 7 (21 votes) ---
bells heavy spotted touch swim unwritten axiomatic zephyr serious edge

This post was mass deleted and anonymized with Redact

--- reply 8 (18 votes) ---
I 100% disagree. I think it’s more the fact that the tech job market is in a recession rather than being over saturated. The same shit happened in the dot com bubble. It will again reach regular levels in a couple years, just not now.
