THREAD: To the girl that splashed a drink into my little sisters face last night at DPhiE
TOPIC: Social

Seriously? What a low blow. This is her first semester here as a transfer and honestly she’s trying her best to adapt and catch up socially and this is what she gets?

What did she do to you? She said she didn’t even know you and was confused when you grabbed her drink from her hand and splashed the entire thing in her face. Her eyes were burning and she couldn’t see your face to say or do anything about it.

It’s the most heartbreaking thing when your little sister comes home from a night and tells me this
Did she accidentally shove you in the crowded room? Did she accidentally step on your foot?
I don’t understand how anyone could be so full of hate to even do this to a stranger.

EDIT: I am overwhelmed by all the kind words from everyone—strangers offering to reach out to my sister. I showed her the comments and she is seriously touched. She didn’t think people would show this much love or even care. Thanks guys.

--- reply 1 (227 votes) ---
Classic dumb bitches

The girl who splashed the drink is actually socially inept.

--- reply 2 (79 votes) ---
A sorority girl pushed my foreign friend out of her sorority’s porch when we were standing there for shelter when it was POURING waiting for an Uber bc my friend injured herself and was bleeding when trying to get away from an asshole who couldn’t take no for an answer at a party. (We had the bleeding under control and weren’t messing up her porch. We were waiting outside by a tree for our Uber and it started RAINING down on us and the porch was the nearest shelter we could find) I told her that our Uber would be there in less than a minute and she literally had 2 of her friends come out and physically push us out into the heavy rain. she had a party going on at her house so she kept saying that if cops drove by and saw people out they would bust her party and she didn’t want to be responsible for strays. What really broke my heart was my injured friend kept apologizing to her and told her that we would leave in literally less than a minute. One of her sorority girls came out and she could tell how inhumane karen was being and asked if karen could let us in for 2 seconds until our Uber got there. Bless her for trying but Karen said asked the other girl to stfu and go back inside. She literally pushed us out in the rain and kept telling us that they weren’t a homeless shelter and we were being a liability.

I’m so sorry that happened to your sister. It really surprises me how fucking cruel some people can be at Rutgers sometimes.

--- reply 3 (72 votes) ---
I have no clue what inspired her to do that, but if your little sister wants to meet new friends, message me! I'm not a transfer myself, but I know what it is like to feel like you aren't "on par" socially, and I love to meet new people!

--- reply 4 (41 votes) ---
Not surprised, the fraternity and sorority scene at Rutgers is a toxic as it is stupid.

--- reply 5 (34 votes) ---
Some people are just trash, unfortunately trash isn't always easy to avoid. I'm sorry to hear that happened.

--- reply 6 (27 votes) ---
Oof I’m assuming your sister didn’t do anything bad considering they don’t even know eachother. Maybe one of them was pushed but that happens at every party. It’s horrible when someone pushes you and you can’t stop it. But thats not a reason to throw a drink and really there is no valid excuse. At parties you find many personalities and you just gotta do your own. Hope she’s okay.

--- reply 7 (26 votes) ---
I just felt stupid that I couldn’t do anything about it since I wasn’t there and I was hoping that girl or her group of friends would see this. I don’t know, I’m upset.

--- reply 8 (9 votes) ---
What a pathetic little bitch. Im sorry your sister had to go through that. But if she’s struggling to make friends and catch up socially I’m always willing to be a friend!

And I sure hope that girl who splashed the drink gets thrown into the Raritan, like little shitrag she is
