THREAD: CONGRATULATIONS TO THE CLASS OF 2023!!!🎓🍾🎉
TOPIC: CONGRATS CLASS OF 2023!!🔴⚫️

It is with thunderous and and roaring excitement I want to bring all of r/Rutgers together to celebrate the graduation of the CLASS OF 2023!!! Together we have been through some of Rutgers’s most tumultuous moments, from the COVID 19 pandemic, to the strike. Nevertheless, we persevered and made it to the finish line. One way or another, the mission is complete. We are done! I would like to wish everyone good luck with their future careers. Whether you are starting work full time or moving on to graduate school, the door is open for many opportunities. Our story is to be continued…

Today marks the end of an era for me. I began my Rutgers journey as a freshman 7 years ago in fall 2016. r/Rutgers was a tiny space with barely 10,000 subscribers and Facebook was the main social media site. Watching our community grow over these years has been a highlight of my time here and I am truly proud of what we have become. Rah Rah Rutgers Reddit. I still can’t believe my time at Rutgers is finally over. It really is the most bittersweet moment

I will miss all that Rutgers has to offer, the small and the big. From the Livi dhall pasta line, to my almost daily walks through the Livi Plaza to Lot 105, to the epic buses, to the Rutgers Esports Center, my place of work these last 2 years, I will miss it all. But what I will miss the most is the people. My fellow Scarlet Knights, the so so many of you I have met over my 7 years was what made being at Rutgers so exceptionally awesome. If given the chance to do it all over again, I definitely would

I wish all continuing students a fun and healthy summer. I truly hope you (and all the incoming freshman as well) can experience Rutgers the way I have been able to, because goddamn it, college is so much fucking fun. You don’t need seven years of it LOL, but definitely put yourself out there and have fun!

The Rutgers era is over for me. As for what comes next, the door is open and the story is…to be continued

Yours truly, in scarlet service and as always in moderation,

Desh - Rutgers University, CLASS OF 2023

We graduated?! Waku waku! The door is open for us and our story is to be continued…

--- reply 1 (6 votes) ---
I graduate in ‘24 but if anyone would like to take on the torch I’ll be more than happy to hand it over🗽

--- reply 2 (3 votes) ---
Yea. Once you submitted the diploma application and passed your classes you’re done. Commencement is optional. Congratulations!🎉🍾🎓

--- reply 3 (2 votes) ---
I will be coming from India with the intended major of Computer science, I got in the honors College as well.

--- reply 4 (2 votes) ---
It’s daunting for sure. Being in the honors college will definitely help since you’ll already have a community to hang with. Also you’re south Asian lolll, tons of south Asians (Asians in general) here, you’ll fit in easy
