THREAD: Rutgers on 9/11

I was a freshman on September 11, 2001 and remember it being an ordinary Tuesday morning. The sky was clear and I had a lecture session of Calculus in the Hill Center. This class was a double period lecture (1st and 2nd), so it ran from 8:10 to 11:10 with the professor giving us a break during periods to stretch our legs and step outside.

It was during the break from 9:30 to 9:50 that we first heard about something going on in New York. This was before widespread cell phone use, long before text messages, and in the early stages of the Internet. Someone had mentioned two planes hitting the World Trade Center and we all thought they were small planes like you’d see on the beach towing a banner, so didn’t think much more of it. Second period started and went almost the full duration when two girls came in around 11AM and announced classes are cancelled the rest of the day because of “bombings in New York.” No one even imagined it was related to the airplanes we had heard about earlier. Without knowing exactly what happened, everyone was happy for a day off.

Walking back through the Busch Student Center, you could hear a pin drop. Someone had rolled out a big boxy TV on a cart and placed it right in the middle of the floor near the fireplace lounge. The news was showing lower Manhattan as a crowd watched in silence. I distinctly remember hearing asI walked up, “what you’re seeing live is the complete devastation in lower Manhattan.” Disbelief hit first… “The twin towers are gone??” They were such an integral part of the skyline growing up that it didn’t seem real. The towers were everywhere… on every TV show set in NYC, on all NYC memorabilia, they were even a part of the Manhattan Bagel logo. They couldn’t be gone.

I had been on a Circle Line Cruise around Manhattan on Saturday, September 8 and had taken photos of the skyline. This was the pre-digital age, so film had to be dropped off to be processed. When I got to a phone, I called home… “Ma, you have to go to KMart and get the film.” She bravely ventured out and called my dorm line later in the day… “I got the film, the pics are all here, I’ll keep them safe.”

Back at the dorm, it was mass confusion. Some had parents that worked in the WTC, others had parents in lower Manhattan…. but everyone knew someone in New York that day. Rumors were rampant, there was a fear of more planes and bombs going off all day.

Residence Life did a really good job getting people away from their TV’s and getting their mind off the events. There were a lot of group activities that took place on 9/11 and the days after. Spending time in the common areas, we learned a lot about our dorm mates that week.

Aside from a dorm landline, the only means of communication was email or AOL Instant Messenger. Cell phones weren’t widespread and if you had one, service was either jammed or knocked out from the collapse. Social media didn’t exist yet and even news sources on the internet weren’t widespread.

The local TV stations broadcast scenes from New York and had live, round-the-clock coverage for weeks. I remember MTV playing REM’s “Everybody Hurts” on repeat. Rutgers cancelled classes the rest of that week.

We tried to get back to a sense of normalcy, but things just weren’t the same. For weeks, you could go to the top of the CoRE building and see the smoke rising from “Ground Zero.” Life went on, but that morning at Rutgers still feels like yesterday.

Cheers.

--- reply 1 (108 votes) ---
Was a junior that year. Was sleeping in because I didn’t have any Tuesday morning classes when my roommates woke me up.

Driving up the turnpike felt so weird. You could feel the emptiness where the twin towers used to be.

--- reply 2 (30 votes) ---
Was a senior and RA on CAC back then. Remember hearing all the planes overhead and feeling uneasy for a while while trying to comfort residents. Watching CNN on the big tv in the dorm with others in disbelief. Realized how life for all of us that day changed forever. Will never forget.

--- reply 3 (30 votes) ---
I was also a freshman at the time, I remember having my TV on in Campbell while getting ready for class, seeing the news about the first tower and thinking "oh shit what an insane accident". I walked to class at Scott Hall and then we got the news that the second tower was hit and classes were cancelled for the day.

I don't remember much more about the specifics of what happened that day, but I do remember a big group of us from my floor (we had just moved in the week prior) walking to downtown New Brunswick to try to donate blood.

I worked at Sam Goody on Easton Ave at the time, and I called my manager to see if we were open that day, and he replied "the district manager said it's up to each individual store, you can close or open, whatever you want. Personally, I think our community needs us now more than ever" and I burst out laughing.

It's really impossible to overstate how beautiful the weather was that day. Bright, dark blue sky, not a single cloud, 70 degrees with a slight breeze, just an absolutely perfect weather day. Maybe the best weather day I've ever experienced.

--- reply 4 (24 votes) ---
I was going to have my first ever class at rutgers that day. It was surreal and scary. So many students had parents, family or friends who were in NYC and they had no idea what was going on.

--- reply 5 (16 votes) ---
It was my freshman year. I lived on Busch and slept through 1/2 of my morning linear algebra class only to wake up after the first plane hit.

I remember it was King Neptune night

--- reply 6 (12 votes) ---
I had a similar experience. It was my second year and I got a really bad housing lottery number so I was commuting and driving on the Turnpike when it all started. I was in a class in SERC and when it got out, it was eerily quiet. There was a note on the (full) bus that classes were cancelled. Instead of waiting for the next bus, I walked to the BSC and there was that TV set up and a stunned silence.

--- reply 7 (10 votes) ---
Especially if it's beautiful weather on a day like today, when it's actually 9/11

--- reply 8 (9 votes) ---
During one of my years at Rutgers, I lived on the top (8th) floor of Lynton North Tower on Livingston. At night, I could see the top of the Empire State Building. I wasn't at Rutgers for 9/11, but when I lived in that room, I did wonder if the events of that day were visible there. I figure they must have been.
