THREAD: Are we screwed?


--- reply 1 (127 votes) ---
if any of yall see this please send the email 🥲🥲, so many students depend on aid, and even if you don’t depend on it, a lot of the things you use at rutgers will start to not be there once the amount of aid goes down!!

--- reply 2 (36 votes) ---
This would probably enforce colleges to make budget cuts in order to get more students back but it wouldn’t help much, without student aid americas education system is screwed, think about it like this 10,000 students, out of those 10,000 at least 6000 of them are middle or poor, with the 4000 left is split between international and rich. Plus 1000 of the international are on grants and scholarships, The school will not be able to survive with just 3000 students paying and carrying the weight of the missing 7000.

--- reply 3 (25 votes) ---
America rooted hate will destroy everything. College used to be free, but folks didn't like minorities using it to get ahead. Now it's so expensive no but the rich can afford it and not go into debt.

--- reply 4 (25 votes) ---
Im gonna prefice by saying that I'm not a fan of taking away federal funding from the education of the future generation of workers. This being said, college tuition is obscenely over priced, and has only been becoming more so. If this policy was introduced, I hope it would have Rutgers and other universities to lower tuition costs. They're already making billions of dollars of revenue (rutgersaaup.org) (compworth.com). Will that happen? Probably not. I wish we would allocate the budget better towards the betterment of the american people, but hey, let the funny orange mans popularity tank even more.

--- reply 5 (21 votes) ---
Don't just send an email. A phone call is typically more effective. The capital switchboard number is (202) 224-3121. Tell the switchboard operator where you live and the'll tell you who your members of Congress are. You have 2 Senators and 1 member of the House of Representatives. Call all three.

--- reply 6 (11 votes) ---
I know I posted on this before but I forgot to mention this would impact and cause the collapse of the American economy in 3 years. Do you understand how many jobs require a degree in america?

Engineering for example, car engineers, trucks, trains, planes, boats.

Transportation logistics.

Medical industry. Nurses, doctors and pharmacists.

Teachers and professors.

Managerial staff in multiple businesses.

Agriculture too! So food supply issues and power grid engineers too so that’s gonna affect cost of living too!!!

The first year this passes, I see a 10-20% drop in college students and applications as some people straight up cannot afford college unless fafsa covers atleast 70% or more tuition. Because it says even federal subsidies loans would be impacted so that means 3 things, either A drop in fafsa support, B limit in who can get access to Fafsa, C higher interest rates to cover the impact of losing other programs.

Then I see atleast 40-50% drop in applications and attendance. Not to mention some people will leave straight up half way through the degree.

Now by year 3 of this passing, the job market will suffer because no new bachelor holding graduates coming out of college to train to replace those that are retiring, fired, transferred or moved. Plus new job openings then will stagnate. THIS WILL DESTROY THE ENTIRE COUNTRY. If this passes it will speed run the fall of the country by end of trumps presidency.

And all for what? To stop some government spending? The money that the government gets from the tax payers? The tax payers that will now have job issues? The jobs that pay the tax payers so they can pay the government? The government who is trying to stop spending by removing their main source of income? Why not just lower spending in other programs like idk…OVER SEA SPENDING!?

The options are either don’t touch higher education financial aid, or significantly reduce the amount college tuition costs. Your average student cannot pay out of pocket from a McDonald’s salary!! And if you expect students to get 2 jobs to cover their degrees then you are living in a fantasy world.

--- reply 7 (9 votes) ---
Shoutout to all you trump voters who are screwing people (including yourselves) over. All the trump voters will dislike this comment and will try to justify their vote.

--- reply 8 (8 votes) ---
Because of this and how Rutgers is no longer receiving the garden state guarantee, I’m really am starting to consider transferring schools in order to receive better financial aid
