THREAD: Well, I guess there's no strike. We won. :)

Takeaway: After over a year of intensive bargaining and months of membership mobilization, our Union has achieved a tentative agreement. The gains and accomplishments in this contract are historic and unprecedented! Thanks to all for the hard work that went into strike preparations. This contract is a tribute to the efforts of our members and leaders. Now we need to stand in solidarity with our PTL and staff colleagues who are still bargaining for fair contracts. Please come out to a rally Wednesday on all three campuses (details below)

Dear Joseph,

We have won a historic contract and have signed a tentative agreement that you will soon vote on. Over the past week, our “final warning” to the BOG, our preparations and readiness to walk off the job, and very late-night bargaining changed the game. At the very precipice of a strike, the Administration finally conceded to a contract with equity, security, and dignity. See below for a list of the concrete gains we have won for every segment of the faculty and grad workers.

Equity raises: For the first time in our almost 50-year history, our union has made it possible for women and faculty of color to obtain pay equity. In short, we won provisions for equal pay for equal work, including for faculty in Camden and Newark earning less than comparable New Brunswick scholars. Faculty will apply through an expanded out-of-cycle process, backed up with an appeal process and the University’s commitment to pay raises from central funds. That last stipulation overrides the destructive budget model of Responsibility Center Management (RCM). All faculty are eligible to apply for an equity correction if you believe that you are paid less than your peers.

Significant salary gains: In addition to providing our members with the opportunity to achieve equity raises to redress gender, race and other forms of discrimination, we won significant gains for our grad employee members. In the first two years of our contract, their salaries will increase by $2,600 (10% for academic year employees). By the end of this contract period, TA and GA salaries will go from $25,969 to $30,162 for academic year workers.

All faculty will receive the following salary increases:

July 1, 2018 - $3,642

July 1, 2019 – 3% across-the-board

July 1, 2020 – 3% merit

July 1, 2021 – 2.5% across-the-board

For all members, retroactive payments will be processed going back to July 1, 2018.

Gender and Race Equity: We also won $20 million for diversity hiring. In another historic first, the University agreed to a committee composed equally of our members and members of management, co-chaired by the SPVAA and a person selected by our union. The Diversity Committee will be charged with planning systematic changes to our University’s approach to gender, race and diversity.

Protecting the jobs and expanding the rights of TA/GAs: We won important protections against the conversion of TAships to PTL positions. Before candidacy, any PhD student who teaches must be employed as a teaching assistant. We also bargained contract provisions to ensure that all grads who are performing bargaining unit work are in TA or GA positions. In addition, the Union bargained language requiring lactation spaces to be provided for all faculty and staff in compliance with the aw – an essential protection for graduate student parents. Availability of lactation space is enforceable through our new contract.

Academic Freedom: For the first time in our history, academic freedom is recognized in our contract for all unit members and expressly applies to social media.

Infosilem: Also for the first time, the Administration agreed to negotiate over a software package – Infosilem – that raises grave concerns over faculty course scheduling.

NTT Faculty: We won meaningful job security for our NTT colleagues who until now had few, if any, protections against arbitrary non-renewals. An NTT faculty member cannot be re-appointed for a term shorter than her or his previous term. And after six years, she will receive a minimum three-year contract upon reappointment. Also, at any point, NTTs may be (re)appointed for a seven-year term. For the first time ever NTTs have a grievance procedure that empowers them to challenge non-reappointments and decisions not to promote. Finally, the University has shifted from its “no-green card” policy. Rutgers may now sponsor NTT faculty for permanent residency in the United States.

Protections against sexual harassment and gender and race discrimination: We now have a guarantee of a workplace free of harassment and stalking, enforced with binding arbitration.

Ten-year rule for Associate Professors: We formalized this important alternative route to promotion. External letter writers shall be instructed to give increased weight to teaching and service for faculty with ten years in rank. This is a significant gain for all Associate Professors, particularly for women who often do tremendous amounts of under-recognized service. Also, the ten-year rule will now reward teachers robustly for providing quality public higher education.

Principle investigators: In a victory previously won away from the table, Rutgers no longer charges GAs out-of-state tuition on grants managed by faculty. In-state tuition applies to all TAs/GAs, including international scholars.

Our work is not done! Our Union also represents Part-Time Faculty, who are in a separate bargaining unit and must negotiate a separate contract. Our work is not done until our PTL sisters and brothers have won a fair contract, that appropriately recognizes their vital role in teaching our undergraduate and graduate students. The AAUP-AFT will immediately turn to bargaining a contract for PTLs that mirrors the historic gains won by full-time faculty. Please come out to blah and blah

Ratification is next: It is now up to all our members to vote to ratify this contract. Ballots are being prepared. Please also attend chapter meetings next week (details will be sent soon) to discuss the details of our tentative agreement.

Solidarity with PTLS: Our full-time faculty and graduate members will continue to do everything in our collective ability to help win significant raises and health care for our adjunct colleagues, starting immediately. We call on our members, students and allies to join us Wednesday, April 17, for Solidarity actions on all campuses. In New Brunswick, join us at 4pm at the new Paul Robeson Plaza at Seminary and College Ave. In Camden, meet at 11:20am at the Walt Whitman statue in front of the Camden Student Center. In Newark, meet at 2:30pm on the steps of the Robeson Student Center.

In solidarity,
The Bargaining Team

Carlos Decena

Niki Dykstra

Lauren Frazee

Charles Häberl

David Hughes

Carla Katz

Deepa Kumar

Patrick Nowlan

Patrice Mareschal

Victoria Pacheco

BJ Walker

Steve Weissman

--- reply 1 (139 votes) ---
Damn it.....I mean congratulations frantically starts studying to catch up and cancels plans for tonight

--- reply 2 (70 votes) ---
Damn..... Are you sure there is no need for a strike anymore? I mean maybe we can arrange to strike for something else, for maybe this upcoming week...

--- reply 3 (39 votes) ---
Nope, it's a salary, according to my contract, and does come with the expectation to teach. A stipend is what is given to students on fellowship, who are not employees and are not represented by the union. Many graduate programs are a mix of both.

I actually care a lot about the distinction, because stipends are not taxed by the state in New Jersey as they are classed alongside scholarships, while salaries, obviously, are taxed normally. The distinction also matters because TAs who receive salaries are eligible for the normal Rutgers employee health insurance and dental through the New Jersey state employees' insurance options. Students on stipends, however, have to pay for student insurance (some departments cover this) and must purchase dental personally (although Rutgers does offer some discounts, it's in the 300+ range).

Source: I have been on both stipends and salaries at Rutgers, and they make a huge difference in the ways I am able to live my life. I only have dental every other year, for instance, if I also want to have car insurance.

--- reply 4 (33 votes) ---
The biggest demands were equal pay, increased salary to meet SOL, less adjunctification, and no Infosilem. All of that was won.

To your specific question, evidently they will now guarantee that a certain minimum number of TAships not become PTL positions, and NTT faculty (faculty like me) now have higher job security. These both contribute to less adjunctification.

One of the specific demands was opening more TT and NTT positions, but I suppose it wasn't the top priority or it was something that had to be compromised on.

The PTL's are not covered by this contract; so that's a separate bargain. We will see what happens with that.

--- reply 5 (22 votes) ---
I'm glad that most of union's demands were met, but to be honest it is disappointing that the question about student:teacher ratio was not considered a top priority . Some (many) classes, particularly in CS department, are really understaffed, which is obviously a big problem, especially taking into account that tuition increases every year, but ratio only drops. Like we have one lecturer for 180 people for Comp Arch/Data Structures and other difficult classes, how can that professor possibly address even 20% of the questions that student might have. So I don't understand how this could be something to compromise on

--- reply 6 (20 votes) ---
Great to hear about Infosilem. I know not a lot of people mentioned it, but I felt that it was one of the most important parts of this debate.

--- reply 7 (18 votes) ---
The AAUP-AFT will immediately turn to bargaining a contract for PTLs that mirrors the historic gains won by full-time faculty. Please come out to blah and blah

I hope our gains are at least equally historic.

--- reply 8 (14 votes) ---
but to be honest it is disappointing that the question about student:teacher ratio was not considered a top priority.

I was not involved in the bargaining, so I can't speak to the relative importance of the demands. Increased NTT positions was one of the demands to solve the growing problem of increased student-to-teacher ratios. But that demand does not seem to be addressed in the email. So I just have to assume it was something that had to be compromised on. I don't know.

I, too, would love to have smaller classes. Recitations in the calculus sequence 151-152-251 are "supposed to be" capped at 25 students, but they are regularly at enrollment capacity of 35 because of lack of staffing. My large lectures in the calculus courses regularly have 85-100 students. The workload of grading is immense, it's not possible to address all student questions during lecture, my office hours are regularly overcrowded, and the classrooms themselves just barely have enough seats.

So, sure, I also wish there were some demands won regarding that. But if I had to choose among things like equal pay, increased salary, and NTT job security (things we won), I don't think I would give any of that up.
