THREAD: Remember don't vote to let PIRG be a lone item

Repost but it's important cause NJ PIRG advocates are out in full force. Originally posted by /u/kuyamatt26

There was a post here earlier by /u/Nonametochose asking about contributing to the PIRG. I wrote a comment that I thought was good (long) enough to be a post on its own.

TD;LR: The PIRG does nothing for Rutgers students. They have a long list of accomplishments that can easily be discredited with minimal research. Student fees fund the PIRG to a tune of $530,000/yr. This year, there will be a referendum to continue funding the PIRG using student funds.

────────

DO NOT CONTRIBUTE. THEY DO NOTHING FOR STUDENTS. NJPIRG says that they act as an advocate for students, but their mission is far from student interests.

On some of their survey cards that they sometimes hand out asking what is the most pressing issue to you as a student I remember 3 choices (there were more, but these stuck out to me); lower textbook prices, lower tuition costs, and anti-biotics in food. Of the three they haven't made any progress since the last referendum in 2013. Textbook prices are as high as ever, tuition costs have gone up every year recently, and there are still anti-biotics in food.

Now lets look at their "accomplishments".

New Voters Project: NJPIRG boasts that they've helped registered over 11,300 voters between 2010 and 2013. Sounds like a lot, right? But do some math, and it's not. The Class of 2019 introduced over 8,100 new students to the university over all 3 campuses. 11,300 voters over 3 years is about 3,800 each year. Meaning that NJPIRG failed to register over half of incoming students each year. And these numbers are flawed too, NJPIRG takes credit for ALL of new voters that go to Rutgers, even if they didn't register through NJPIRG. Meaning that when I printed out a registration form in my dorm room and mailed it at BPO last year, they took credit for that registration. NJPIRG also highlights that they contacted over 30,000 people to vote over 3 years, averaging 10,000 per year. With over 67,000 students attending all 3 campuses, that's a hilariously low number with the PIRG only contact 3 in 20 students a year.

Corporate Money out of Elections: In this section of their "accomplishments" they open stating that 7 NJ Congressmen co-sponsored a bill to overturn Citizens United, and 15 cities an municipalities have gone on-record against corporate spending in elections. However, here NJPIRG is riding on the coattails of others' accomplishments, because they weren't involved. NJPIRG goes on to boast that they've got 1,500 people in North Brunswick, Essex County, Newark, Highland Park, and Princeton to sign a petition to take a stand against the 2010 Citizens United Supreme Court ruling. This is a pathetic amount when taking account of population. The cities they listed have a combined population of over 1.1 million people, meaning that they failed to get 1 in 1000 people to sign! By comparison, the RUSA petition to get a seat on the Board of Governors recently passed 1,500 signatures.

Making Higher Education More Affordable: Honestly, what a joke. NJPIRH claim that they've stopped Federal student loan rates from doubling, but they fail to mention that it was only for another year. Even then, they ultimately failed to stop loan rates from doubling, with Congressional inaction triggering the rate increase the following year

Health Care and Energy Service Corps: Here, NJPIRG brags that they've "educated" people on those respective topics. Yet they've failed to make any real difference with Health Care costs still expensive and New Jersey ranking either 46th or 40th in renewable energy usage over the last 3 years depending on how you want to view data.

Protecting Our Drinking Water from Natural Gas Drilling: Again they use petition numbers to claim accomplishment, with over 1,000 people signing the petition. This time I'll compare it to the change.org petition with just under 1,500 signature to put a stop to multiple mascots.

Making Textbooks More Affordable: One of their only advocacy initiatives that truly affect students. They promote lower textbook costs but don't get to the root of the problem, failing to reduce textbook prices by a single cent.

Sustainable U: Again they've used petitions to advocate, bur fail to make any real change.

Fighting Poverty: This is a good initiative, but they fail to be effective. They claim to educate 350 students and collect 2,500 items and collect $40,000. But let's compare this to Rutgers Against Hunger. RAH has collected 225,000 lbs of food and collected $250,000 worth of donations. RAH also has a timeslot during New Student Orientation where they educate around 400 new students every orientation.

Cleaning Up NJ's waterways: They don't go too much into this, they just claim that they clean up the streets with the Interfraternity Council every year. However, they do claim that over 275 people volunteer a year, which is funny because the Targum article that they link to says that only 125 people participated, under half of what NJPIRG claims. So...NJPIRG is lying.

Promoting Public Transit: Personally, I think that Rutgers' public transit is just fine. But apparently USPIRG decided to team up with the cast of Mad Men to talk about high-speed rail. Which, in my opinion isn't a good thing to advocate for, because the US train system sucks and always will.

────────

Rutgers students are charged an $11.20 fee on tuition term bills that is earmarked for NJPIRG Students' activities. The funding, which totals about $530,000 per year, is used for such items as campaign material and hiring full time staff.

NJPIRG doesn't deserve our money. They promise too much, and deliver nothing. What's even more infuriating is their chapter list. Of their 3 NJ student chapters, ALL THREE ARE RUTGERS CAMPUSES.

For forty years NJPIRG Student Chapters have been standing up to powerful interests.

For 40 years NJPIRG Student Chapters have been relying on the good faith of the Rutgers Student Body to fund their "advocacy group". This year, NJPIRG will hold the referendum to determine whether or not students will fund the group. Since Rutgers comprises the entirety of NJPIRG's Student Chapters, defunding the PIRG will definitely spell an end for the organization.

--- reply 1 (30 votes) ---
It must be nice to skim our term bills and use the money to fund self interests. Everyone grab your pitchforks! VOTE NO!

--- reply 2 (12 votes) ---
I've actually joined PIRG for a week and even the process in becoming an "intern" was shady. They didn't even explain my role, communicate properly, etc. When I asked about specific emails pertaining to my duties, the only emails I've received were mass ones that they send out to everyone. Also, the same few people are involved in the organization, not really a lot of people. I signed up for the poverty alleviation "campaign" and its goals were extremely vague. Rutgers Against Hunger seems more substantial. I backed out because with all that money, something other than increasing voter membership and "saving the environment" needs to be done. Until I've actually received cheaper textbooks, I ain't supporting them.

--- reply 3 (7 votes) ---
I went up to a referendum worker and told them that even though I cant vote in the referendum because I'm graduating after this semester, I'd like to let them know that their organization is classless, scummy and corrupt and I would like nothing more than to vote no if I were allowed to do so.

--- reply 4 (7 votes) ---
I know that Targum referendum workers were not associated with the Targum, so I don't know if your message really connected

--- reply 5 (4 votes) ---
Then go ahead and give it to them argument is that it shouldn't be an opt out line item

--- reply 6 (3 votes) ---
sorry for not originally crediting you I was on my phone (hence fucked up title)

--- reply 7 (3 votes) ---
Hi all. I'm a law student here, and was curious as to what all the fuss is about. This post was informative, and pretty much the only recent, concrete, well-stated argument against the measure that I was able to find. Thought I'd make note of a couple points that have not (apologies if I missed something) that should be addressed and/or clarified:

- 1. http://senate.rutgers.edu/NJPIRGConceptPlan2016.pdf
On the very last page, there is an interesting note regarding a 1995 statute that bars NJPIRG and orgs like it from lobbying the state government. I will paste the relevant passage here:
"In 1995, the New Jersey state legislature enacted a law
that bars student-funded groups at state colleges and
universities from lobbying the Legislature or employing
legislative agendas. NJPIRG Student Chapters fully
complies with this law. In 1995, NJPIRG Student Chapters
Board of Directors resolved that:

- NJPIRG Student Chapters would not engage in or
fund any state legislative programs.

- NJPIRG Student Chapters would not engage in joint
projects that involve taking a position on pending
state legislation.

I feel that such a limitation (note that this is their own reading of the statute) reduces their effectiveness in assisting the student body significantly, since a great many pertinent decisions are made at that level. Also could explain why they choose the non-student-related "missions" they do. I agree that some of these missions are good things to pursue, but take issue with this manner of funding. (I would be perhaps more supportive if this went to teaching and promoting civic engagement, the only stated goal of the org for which there is a a largely unfulfilled need, and perhaps the only one for which they're uniquely placed and capable of pursuing.)

- 2. The manner (people with boxes on campuses) in which the referendum is being conducted is peculiar as well, given that Rutgers contracts a centralized electronic polling system tied to individual NetIDs (CollegiateLink) which allows voter eligibility to be set, links to a specific poll to be emailed, and (theoretically) allows for greater accountability. Also, it is almost certainly cheaper to use.

When combined with the 25%+1 threshold for the sustaining measure to pass, I find it a little suspect that they do not use a system that is already in place and already accessible to student orgs that is cheaper, would cause less annoyance, and would garner more votes. Indeed, one of the referendum box-watchers told me that his employer, a private contractor, was running the election on our campus (though I have no way of confirming that, nor time to follow up). Needless to say, given a more efficient option likely to produce better turnout, I highly doubt that the referendum would be conducted in this expensive, poorly accountable and highly inefficient manner without reason. (I also note that employing paper balloting stands in stark contrast to their stated aim of improving campus sustainability).

- 3. Given the very low win threshold, the way the vote is conducted, and the long interval between referendums, this is probably going to pass and keep passing. It's designed to be more of a slightly weighted rubber stamp than a true referendum.
I am voting no myself, but will be graduating in the spring. Most of us will only vote in this referendum once or twice. And interest in it only seems to pop up when the referendum is actually occurring.

I would propose that time be better spent informing students that they can (and arguing that they should, if they disagree with the idea of student money being collected and used in this way) opt out of funding NJPIRG on the term bill. It's an easier campaign to wage, and be waged consistently throughout a student's time here. Further, it would help level the playing field, and could lead to more focused opposition to the referendum the next time around.

TL:DR I concur with OP that we should vote no. By its own reckoning, NJPIRG is barred from lobbying the state legislature or employing legislative agendas, which hampers its "student interest" mission as they currently pitch it significantly. The vote is conducted on-the-ground in a way that does not, from a turnout standpoint make sense given the availability of a better, cheaper, more efficient, electronic system. This and the extremely low threshold effectively make this referendum a sort of rubber stamp. I suggest that the main focus be on publicly informing students of the opt-out and perhaps encourage them to vote with their wallets every semester, because it would be easier, more constant, have more impact and generate momentum for the next referendum.

Just my 25+1 cents. :)

--- reply 8 (3 votes) ---
I'm on my phone now so I'll give a more detailed response when I'm at a computer but I'm about to do something that you have probley never have seen on reddit....... I am completely wrong and owe you an apology. My lack of understanding of the policy on voting mixed with a lack of sleep (multiple exams in next two days) mixed with a lot of caffeine have made me embarrass myself a bit and jump the gun. I am a bit passionate because NJPIRG takes advantage of indifference and gets millions for it so I viewed your position as encouraging the same indifference NJPIRG depends on. You are right that getting people to opt out is productive I just think right now if even one of the schools at Rutgers opts out it will be good. My bad and thanks for your detailed response makes us all a bit more educated on the matter
